Coverage of guidelines from other organizations
does not imply endorsement by AFP or the AAFP.
A collection of Practice Guidelines published in AFP
is available at http://www.aafp.org/afp/practguide.
October 1, 2014 ◆ Volume 90, Number 7 www.aafp.org/afp American Family Physician 503
▲
Practice Guidelines
JNC 8 Guidelines for the Management of Hypertension
in Adults
In the general population younger than
Key Points for Practice
60 years, pharmacologic treatment should
• In the general population, pharmacologic treatment should be initiated
be initiated when the systolic pressure is
when blood pressure is 150/90 mm Hg or higher in adults 60 years and
140 mm Hg or higher, or when the diastolic
older, or 140/90 mm Hg or higher in adults younger than 60 years.
pressure is 90 mm Hg or higher. The target
• In patients with hypertension and diabetes, pharmacologic treatment
should be initiated when blood pressure is 140/90 mm Hg or higher, systolic pressure in this population is less
regardless of age. than 140 mm Hg, and the target diastolic
• Initial antihypertensive treatment should include a thiazide diuretic, pressure is less than 90 mm Hg.
calcium channel blocker, ACE inhibitor, or ARB in the general nonblack
population or a thiazide diuretic or calcium channel blocker in the Hypertension in Patients with CKD
general black population.
or Diabetes
• If the target blood pressure is not reached within one month after
For persons 18 years or older with chronic
initiating therapy, the dosage of the initial medication should be
increased, or a second medication should be added. kidney disease (CKD) or diabetes melli-
From the AFP Editors tus, the treatment threshold and tar-
get blood pressures are the same as those
for the general population younger than
60 years (i.e., threshold systolic pressure of
140 mm Hg or threshold diastolic pressure
of 90 mm Hg; target systolic pressure of less
than 140 mm Hg; target diastolic pressure of
See related editorial on page 449.
less than 90 mm Hg). There is no evidence
Hypertension is one of the most important that treating patients with CKD to a lower
preventable contributors to disease and death blood pressure goal slows the progression of
in the United States, leading to myocardial the disease. Similarly, there is no evidence
infarction, stroke, and renal failure when it from randomized controlled trials showing
is not detected early and treated appropri- that treatment to a systolic pressure of less
ately. The Eighth Joint National Committee than 140 mm Hg improves health outcomes
(JNC 8) recently released evidence-based in adults with diabetes and hypertension.
recommendations on treatment thresholds,
goals, and medications in the management of Pharmacologic Treatment
hypertension in adults. In the general nonblack population,
In the general population of adults 60 years including those with diabetes, initial anti-
and older, pharmacologic treatment should hypertensive treatment should include a
be initiated when the systolic pressure is thiazide diuretic, calcium channel blocker,
150 mm Hg or higher, or when the diastolic angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)
pressure is 90 mm Hg or higher. Patients inhibitor, or angiotensin receptor blocker
should be treated to a target systolic pressure (ARB). In the general black population,
of less than 150 mm Hg and a target diastolic including those with diabetes, initial treat-
pressure of less than 90 mm Hg. Treatment ment should include a thiazide diuretic or
does not need to be adjusted if it results in calcium channel blocker. If the target blood
a systolic pressure lower than 140 mm Hg, pressure is not reached within one month
as long as it is not associated with adverse after initiating therapy, the dosage of the
effects on health or quality of life. initial medication should be increased or a
Downloaded from the American Family Physician website at www.aafp.org/afp. Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Family Physicians. For the private, noncom-
mercial use of one individual user of the website. All other rights reserved. Contact copyrights@aafp.org for copyright questions and/or permission requests.Practice Guidelines
second medication should be added (thia- initial or add-on therapy, based on moder-
zide diuretic, calcium channel blocker, ACE ate evidence that these medications improve
inhibitor, or ARB; do not combine an ACE kidney-related outcomes in these patients.
inhibitor with an ARB). Blood pressure
Guideline source: Eighth Joint National Committee
should be monitored and the treatment regi-
men adjusted until the target blood pressure Evidence rating system used? Yes
is reached. A third drug should be added if
Literature search described? Yes
necessary; however, if the target blood pres-
sure cannot be achieved using only the drug Guideline developed by participants without rel-
evant financial ties to industry? No
classes listed above, antihypertensive drugs
from other classes can be used (e.g., beta Published source: Journal of the American Medical
blockers, aldosterone antagonists). Refer- Association, December 18, 2013
ral to a physician with expertise in treating Available at: http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?
hypertension may be necessary for patients articleid=1791497
who do not reach the target blood pressure
Endorsed by the AAFP, July 2014: http://www.aafp.org/
using these strategies. patient-care/clinical-recommendations/all/highbloodpres-
Adults with CKD and hypertension sure.html
should receive an ACE inhibitor or ARB as CARRIE ARMSTRONG, AFP Senior Associate Editor ■
AAFP’s “Five Key Metrics for Financial Success”
Master your business. Get back to your patients.
The AAFP’s free online educational series, “Five Key Metrics for Financial Success in Your Practice,”
is designed to provide targeted financial training to practicing family physicians operating as small
business owners.
These five- to seven- minute, easily digestible modules will help you understand how to:
• Evaluate your practice’s revenue cycle
• Better forecast income and expenses, and
• Address issues preventing timely reimbursement.
Let the AAFP help you master the business side of your practice, so you can
get back to your real job: Providing quality care to your patients.
View the tutorials today:
aafp.org/5keymetrics
504 American Family Physician www.aafp.org/afp Volume 90, Number 7 ◆ October 1, 2014
5 Key_ad.indd 1 7/15/14 3:43 PM