9. PHARMACOLOGIC APPROACHES TO GLYCEMIC TREATMENT
9. Pharmacologic Approaches to
Glycemic Treatment: Standards
of Care in Diabetes—2026
Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S183–S215 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S009
American Diabetes Association 
Professional 
Practice Committee for 
Diabetes*
*A complete list of members of the American 
Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee 
for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/ 
10.2337/dc26-SINT.
Duality of interest information for each contributor 
is available 
at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association 
Professional 
Practice Committee for Diabetes. 9. 
Pharmacologic approaches to glycemic treatment: 
Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes 
Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S183–S215
© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. 
Readers may 
use this work for educational, 
noncommercial purposes if properly cited and 
unaltered. The version of record may be linked 
at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA 
permission is 
required to post this work on any 
third-party site or platform. This publication and its 
contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or 
used for text or data mining, machine learning, 
or similar technologies without prior written 
permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute 
this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes 
.org. More information is available at https:// 
diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license
.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes 
the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the 
components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to 
evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes
, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the 
Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed descrip-
tion of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading sys-
tem for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional 
Practice Committee members, please refer to 
Introduction and Methodology. Read-
ers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at 
professional.diabetes.org/SOC.
PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR ADULTS WITH TYPE 1 DIABETES
Recommendations
9.1 Treat most adults with type 1 diabetes with continuous subcutaneous insulin in-
fusion or multiple daily doses of prandial (injected or inhaled) and basal insulin. A
9.2 For most adults with type 1 diabetes, insulin analogs (or inhaled insulin) 
are preferred over injectable human insulins to minimize hypoglycemia risk. A
9.3 To improve glycemic outcomes and quality of life and to minimize hypo -
glycemia risk, most adults with type 1 diabetes should receive education on 
how to match mealtime insulin doses to carbohydrate intake and fat and pro -
tein intake depending on the person’s or caregiver’s needs or preferences. 
They should also be taught how to modify the insulin dose (correction dose) 
based on concurrent glycemia, glycemic trends (if available), sick-day manage
-
ment, and anticipated physical activity. B
9.4 Insulin treatment plans and insulin-taking behaviors should be reevaluated 
at regular intervals (e.g., every 3– 6 months) and adjusted to incorporate spe -
cific factors that affect choice of treatment and ensure achievement of indi -
vidualized glycemic goals. E
Insulin Therapy
Insulin treatment is essential for individuals with type 1 diabetes because the hall -
mark of type 1 diabetes is absent or near-absent β-cell function. In addition to hy-
perglycemia, insulinopenia can contribute to other metabolic disturbances like 
hypertriglyceridemia and ketoacidosis as well as tissue catabolism that can be life 
threatening. Severe metabolic decompensation can be, and was, mostly prevented 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 S183
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
with once- or twice-daily insulin injec -
tions for the six or seven decades after 
the discovery of insulin. Over the past 
four decades, evidence has accumulated 
supporting more intensive insulin re
-
placement, using multiple daily injec -
tions of insulin or continuous subcutaneous 
administration through an insulin pump, 
as providing the best combination of ef
-
fectiveness and safety for people with 
type 1 diabetes.
The Diabetes Control and Complications 
Trial (DCCT) demonstrated that intensive 
therapy with multiple daily injections or 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion 
(CSII) reduced A1C and was associated 
with improved long-term outcomes (1–3
). 
The study was carried out with short- 
acting (regular) and intermediate-acting 
(NPH) human insulins. In this landmark 
trial, lower A1C with intensive manage
-
ment (7.3%) 
led to ∼50% reductions in mi-
crovascular complications compared with 
9.1% mean A1C 
in the conventional treat-
ment arm over 6 years of treatment. How-
ever, intensive therapy was associated with 
a higher rate of severe hypoglycemia than 
conventional treatment (62 compared 
with 19 episodes per 100 person-years 
of therapy) (
1). Follow-up of participants 
from the DCCT demonstrated fewer mac-
rovascular and microvascular complica -
tions in the group that received intensive 
treatment. Achieving intensive glycemic 
goals during the active treatment period 
of the study had a persistent beneficial im
-
pact over the 20 years after the active treat-
ment component of the study ended (1–3).
Insulin replacement plans typically con-
sist of basal insulin, mealtime insulin, and 
correction insulin (
Fig. 9.1) (4). Basal insu-
lin includes NPH insulin, long-acting insu-
lin analogs, and continuous delivery of 
rapid-acting insulin via an insulin pump. 
Basal insulin analogs have longer duration 
of action with flatter, more constant and 
consistent plasma concentrations and ac
-
tivity profiles than NPH insulin; rapid-acting 
analogs (RAA) have a quicker onset and 
peak and shorter duration of action than 
regular human insulin. In people with 
type 1 diabetes, treatment with analog 
insulins is associated with less hypoglyce
-
mia and weight gain and lower A1C 
compared with injectable human insulins 
(5–7). Two injectable ultra-rapid-acting 
analog (URAA) insulin formulations are 
available that contain excipients that ac
-
celerate absorption and provide more ac-
tivity in the first portion of their profile 
compared with the other RAA (
8,9). In-
haled human insulin has a rapid peak and 
shortened duration of action compared 
with RAA (
10) (see also subsection ALTERNA-
TIVE INSULIN ROUTES IN PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR 
ADULTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES). These newer for-
mulations may cause less hypoglycemia 
while improving postprandial glucose ex-
cursions and administration flexibility (in 
relation to prandial intake) compared 
with RAA ( 10–12). In addition, longer- 
acting basal analogs (U-300 glargine or de-
gludec) may confer a lower hypoglycemia 
risk compared with U-100 glargine in indi-
viduals with type 1 diabetes (13,14).
Representative relative attributes of insulin delivery 
approaches in people with type 1 diabetes
Insulin plans Greater 
flexibility
Lower risk of 
hypoglycemia
Higher 
costs
+++ +++ $$$
Less-preferred, alternative injected insulin plans
++ ++ $$
++ + $
+ + $
Continuous insulin infusion plans Greater 
flexibility
Lower risk of 
hypoglycemia
Higher 
costs
Automated insulin delivery systems +++++ +++++ $$$$$
Insulin pump with threshold/
predictive low-glucose suspend ++++ ++++ $$$$$
Insulin pump therapy without 
automation +++ +++ $$$$
MDI with LAA + RAA or URAA
MDI with NPH + RAA or URAA
MDI with NPH + short-acting
(regular) insulin
Two daily injections with NPH + short-
acting (regular) insulin or premixed
Figure 9.1—Choices of insulin plans in people with type 1 diabetes. Continuous glucose monitoring improves outcomes with injected or infused in-
sulin and is superior to blood glucose monitoring. Inhaled insulin may be used in place of injectable prandial insulin in the U.S. The number of plus 
or dollar signs is an estimate of relative association of the plan with greater flexibility, lower risk of hypoglycemia, and higher costs between the 
different plans. Cost symbols are reflective of general costs, which may vary for individuals based on various circumstances: insurance coverage, 
discounts, rebates, and other price adjustments involved in prescription sales. LAA, long-acting insulin analog; MDI, multiple daily injections; RAA, 
rapid-acting insulin analog; URAA, injectable ultra-rapid-acting insulin analog or inhaled insulin. Adapted from Holt et al. (
4). 
Despite the advantages of insulin ana-
logs in individuals with type 1 diabetes, 
the expense and/or complexity of treat-
ment required for their use may be pro-
hibitive (Table 9.1). There are multiple 
approaches to insulin treatment. The 
S184 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.1—Examples of subcutaneous insulin treatment plans
Plans Timing and distribution Advantages Disadvantages Adjusting doses
Plans that more closely mimic normal insulin secretion
Insulin pump therapy, 
including conventional 
CSII, sensor-augmented 
pump, low-glucose 
suspend; AID systems such 
as hybrid closed loop
Basal delivery of URAA or RAA; 
generally 30–50% of TDD.  
Mealtime and correction: 
URAA or RAA by bolus 
based on ICR and/or ISF and 
target glucose, with premeal 
insulin ∼15 min before 
eating.
Can adjust basal rates for varying 
insulin sensitivity by time of day, 
for exercise, and for sick days.  
Flexibility in meal timing and 
content.  
Pump can deliver insulin in 
increments of fractions of units.  
Potential for integration with CGM 
for AID systems.  
TIR % highest and TBR % lowest 
with: hybrid closed-loop > low- 
glucose suspend > sensor- 
augmented open-loop > 
conventional CSII.
Most expensive plan.  
Must continuously wear one or 
more devices.  
Risk of rapid development of 
ketosis or DKA with interruption 
of insulin delivery.  
Potential reactions to adhesives 
and site infections.  
Most technically complex approach 
(harder for people with lower 
numeracy or literacy skills).
Mealtime insulin: if carbohydrate 
counting is accurate, change ICR 
if glucose after meal consistently 
out of target.  
Correction insulin: adjust ISF and/or 
target glucose if correction does 
not consistently bring glucose 
into range.  
Basal rates: adjust based on 
overnight, fasting or daytime 
glucose outside of activity of 
URAA/RAA bolus.  
AID systems: carbohydrate ratio, 
insulin on board, targets, and/or 
ISF may be adjusted, depending 
on the system; make sure to 
review and adjust manual mode 
settings, if available.
MDI: LAA + flexible doses of 
URAA or RAA at meals
LAA once daily (insulin detemir 
or insulin glargine may 
require twice-daily dosing); 
generally 30–50% of TDD.  
Mealtime and correction: 
URAA or RAA based on ICR 
and/or ISF and target 
glucose.
Can use pens for all components.  
Flexibility in meal timing and 
content.  
Insulin analogs cause less 
hypoglycemia than human 
insulins.
At least four daily injections.  
Most costly insulins.  
Smallest increment of insulin is  
1 unit (0.5 unit with some pens).  
LAAs may not cover strong dawn 
phenomenon (rise in glucose in 
early morning hours) as well as 
pump therapy.
Mealtime insulin: if carbohydrate 
counting is accurate, change ICR 
if glucose after meal consistently 
out of target.  
Correction insulin: adjust ISF and/or 
target glucose if correction does 
not consistently bring glucose 
into range.  
LAA: based on overnight or fasting 
glucose or daytime glucose 
outside of activity time course, 
or URAA or RAA injections.
MDI plans with less flexibility
Four injections daily with 
fixed doses of N and RAA
Pre-breakfast: RAA ∼20% of 
TDD. Pre-lunch: RAA ∼10% 
of TDD.  
Pre-dinner: RAA ∼10% of TDD.  
Bedtime: N ∼50% of TDD.
May be feasible if unable to 
carbohydrate count.  
All meals have RAA coverage.  
N is less expensive than LAAs.
Shorter duration RAA may lead to 
basal deficit during day; may 
need twice-daily N.  
Greater risk of nocturnal 
hypoglycemia with N.  
Requires relatively consistent 
mealtimes and carbohydrate 
intake.
Pre-breakfast RAA: based on BGM 
after breakfast or before lunch.  
Pre-lunch RAA: based on BGM after 
lunch or before dinner.  
Pre-dinner RAA: based on BGM 
after dinner or at bedtime.  
Evening N: based on fasting or 
overnight BGM.
Continued on p. S186
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S185 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.1—Continued
Plans Timing and distribution Advantages Disadvantages Adjusting doses
Four injections daily with 
fixed doses of N and R
Pre-breakfast: R ∼
20% of TDD.  
Pre-lunch: R ∼10% of TDD.  
Pre-dinner: R ∼10% of TDD.  
Bedtime: N ∼50% of TDD.
May be feasible if unable to 
carbohydrate count.  
R can be dosed based on ICR and 
correction.  
All meals have R coverage.  
Least expensive insulins.
Greater risk of nocturnal 
hypoglycemia with N.  
Greater risk of delayed post-meal 
hypoglycemia with R.  
Requires relatively consistent 
mealtimes and carbohydrate 
intake.  
R must be injected at least 30 min 
before meal for better effect.
Pre-breakfast R: based on BGM 
after breakfast or before lunch.  
Pre-lunch R: based on BGM after 
lunch or before dinner.  
Pre-dinner R: based on BGM after 
dinner or at bedtime.  
Evening N: based on fasting or 
overnight BGM.
Plans with fewer daily injections
Three injections daily: N + R 
or N + RAA
Pre-breakfast: N ∼40% TDD + R  
or RAA ∼15% TDD.  
Pre-dinner: R or RAA ∼15% 
TDD.  
Bedtime: N ∼30% TDD.
Morning insulins can be mixed in 
one syringe.  
May be appropriate for those who 
cannot take injection in middle 
of day.  
Morning N covers lunch to some 
extent.  
Same advantages of RAAs over R.  
Least (N + R) or less expensive 
insulins than MDI with analogs.
Greater risk of nocturnal 
hypoglycemia with N than LAAs.  
Greater risk of delayed post-meal 
hypoglycemia with R than RAAs.  
Requires relatively consistent 
mealtimes and carbohydrate 
intake.  
Coverage of post-lunch glucose 
often suboptimal.  
R must be injected at least 30 min 
before meal for better effect.
Morning N: based on pre-dinner 
BGM.  
Morning R: based on pre-lunch 
BGM.  
Morning RAA: based on post- 
breakfast or pre-lunch BGM.  
Pre-dinner R: based on bedtime 
BGM.  
Pre-dinner RAA: based on post- 
dinner or bedtime BGM.  
Evening N: based on fasting BGM.
Twice-daily “split-mixed”:  
N + R or N + RAA
Pre-breakfast: N ∼40% TDD + 
R or RAA ∼15% TDD.  
Pre-dinner: N ∼30% TDD + R 
or RAA ∼15% TDD.
Least number of injections for 
people with strong preference 
for this.  
Insulins can be mixed in one 
syringe.  
Least (N + R) or less (N + RAA) 
expensive insulins vs. analogs.  
Eliminates need for doses during 
the day.
Risk of hypoglycemia in afternoon 
or middle of night from N.  
Fixed mealtimes and meal content.  
Coverage of post-lunch glucose 
often suboptimal.  
Difficult to reach targets for blood 
glucose without hypoglycemia.
Morning N: based on pre-dinner 
BGM.  
Morning R: based on pre-lunch 
BGM.  
Morning RAA: based on post- 
breakfast or pre-lunch BGM.  
Evening R: based on bedtime BGM.  
Evening RAA: based on post-dinner 
or bedtime BGM.  
Evening N: based on fasting BGM.
AID, automated insulin delivery; BGM, blood glucose monitoring; CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; CSII, continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion; ICR, insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio; ISF, insulin sen -
sitivity factor; LAA, long-acting analog; MDI, multiple daily injections; N, NPH insulin; R, short-acting (regular) insulin; RAA, rapid-acting analog; TBR, time below range; TDD, total daily insulin dose; TIR, 
time in range; URAA, ultra-rapid-acting analog (inhaled insulin may be considered if appropriate). Adapted from Holt et al. (
4).
S186 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
centra l pr ecept in the management of 
type 1 diabetes is that some f orm of insu -
lin be given in a defined treatment plan 
t ailored to the individual to prevent dia -
betic k etoacidosis (DKA) and minimiz e 
clinically releva nt hypogly cemia while 
achieving the individual’ s glycemi c goals. 
R eassessment of insulin-taking behavior and 
adjust ment of tre atment plans to account 
f or specific factors, including cost, that aff ect 
choice of tr eatment is recommend ed at reg -
ular interva ls (every 3 – 6 months).
Most st udies comparing multiple daily 
injections with CSII have been rela tively 
small and of short duration. A sys tematic 
re view and meta-analysis concluded that 
CSII via pump ther apy has modest advan -
t ages f or lowering A1C (−0.30% [95% CI 
−0.58 to −0.02]) and f or reducing sever e 
h ypoglyc emia ra tes in adults ( 15 ). Use of 
CSII is associat ed with improv ement in 
quality of lif e, particularly in are as rela ted 
to f ear of hypogly cemia and diabetes dis -
tr ess, compared with multiple daily injec -
tions of insulin ( 16 , 17 ). However , there is 
no consensus to guide the choice of injec -
tion or pump therapy in a given individ -
ual, and resear ch to guide this decision- 
making is needed ( 4 ).
Integr ation of continuous glucose moni -
toring (CGM) into the tr eatment plan soon 
afte r diagnosis impr oves gly cemic outcomes, 
decr eases h ypoglycemic events, and im -
pr oves quality of lif e f or individuals with 
type 1 diabetes ( 18 – 21 ). Its use is now 
consider ed st andard of care f or most 
people with type 1 diabetes ( 4 ) (see sec -
tion 7, “ Diabet es Technology ”). Although 
nocturnal hypogly cemia is re duced in 
individuals with type 1 diabet es using 
sensor -augmente d pump therapy with 
low -glucose suspend and pred ictive low - 
glucose suspend ( 22 , 23 ), evidence sug -
gest s that automat ed insulin delivery 
(AID) sy st ems are superior f or increasing 
perce ntage of time in range and redu c -
ing h ypoglycemia ( 24 – 26 ). AID sys tems, 
which inte grat e CSII via an insulin pump, 
a CGM, and a contr ol algorithm to adjus t 
insulin delivery in real time based on glu -
cose levels, are saf e and eff ective f or 
people with type 1 diabete s. Random -
iz ed contr olled trials (RCT s) and real- 
world s tudies hav e demons tra ted the 
ability of commercially a vailable sys tems 
to improv e achievement of glycemic 
goals while r educing the risk of h ypogly -
cemia ( 27 – 32 ). Data are emerging on the 
saf ety and eff ectiveness of open-source 
AID sys t ems ( 33 , 34 ). Inte nsive insulin 
management with CSII and CGM should 
be considered in individuals with type 1 
diabetes whenever f easible. AID sy st ems 
are pref err ed f or individuals with type 1 
diabetes who can use them saf ely (inde -
pendently or with car egiver support), as 
they consist ently impro ve time in range, 
lower A1C, and reduce h ypoglycem ia 
( 26 , 28 – 31 , 35 – 38 ). When choosing among 
insulin delivery sys t ems, individual pref -
erences, cost, insulin type, dosing plan, 
and self -management capabilities should 
be considered. See section 7, “ Diabet es 
Technology ,” f or a full discussion of insu -
lin delivery devices.
In general, individuals with type 1 dia -
betes requir e appro ximat ely 30 – 50% of 
their daily insulin as basal and the remain -
der as prandial ( 39 ). This proportion de -
pends on sever al factors, including but 
not limited to carbohy drat e consumption, 
age, pr egnancy st atus, and puberty st age 
( 4 , 40 – 43 ). T otal daily insulin requ irements 
can be est imated based on weight, with 
typical doses ranging fr om 0.4 to 1 unit/ 
kg /day . Higher amounts may be requir ed 
during puberty , the lat e luteal phase (pr e -
menstrual) in mens truating individuals, 
and illness. The American Diabetes Asso -
ciation/JDRF T ype 1 Diabetes Sourcebook 
notes 0.5 units/kg /day as a typical st art -
ing dose in adults with type 1 diabete s 
who are met abolically st able, with ap -
pro ximat ely one-half administ ere d as 
prandial insulin given to manage blood 
glucose after meals and the remaining 
portion as basal insulin to manage glyce -
mia in the periods between meal absorp -
tion ( 44 ). In adults newly diagnosed with 
type 1 diabete s, insulin requir ements 
at initiation typically range from 0.2 to 
0.6 units/kg /da y , with lower doses often 
sufficient in those with continued endog -
enous insulin production (during the par -
tial remission phase or “honeymoon” 
period, or in people presenting outside 
of k etoacidosis) ( 44 ). This guideline pro -
vides an algorithm f or insulin use f or indi -
viduals with type 1 diabetes using insulin 
injections ( Fig. 9.2 ) and det ailed inf orma -
tion on intensification of therapy to meet 
individualiz ed needs. In addition, the Amer -
ican Diabetes Association (ADA) position 
st atement “T ype 1 Diabet es Management 
Through the Lif e Span” provides a thor ough 
overview of type 1 diabete s tre atment ( 45 ).
T ypical multidose insulin tre atment plans 
f or adults with type 1 diabete s combine 
premeal prandial insulin with a longer - 
acting basal insulin. The long-acting basal 
dose is titrat ed to regulat e overnight and 
fasting glucose. P ostpr andial glucose 
ex cur sions are best managed by an 
appropriat ely timed injection or inhala -
tion of prandial insulin. Pr andial insulin 
should ideally be adminis ter ed bef ore 
meals, although the optimal timing de -
pends on the pharmacokinetics of the f or -
mulation (regular , rapid-acting analog , or 
inhaled), the pre meal blood glucose level, 
and the anticipated carboh ydr ate intak e. 
Dosing r ecommendations should ther e -
f ore be individualiz ed. Because physiolog ic 
insulin secre tion varies with glycemia, meal 
siz e and composition, and tissue demand, 
str at egies have evolved to adjust pr andial 
doses based on predict ed needs. Thus, ed -
ucation on how to adjust prandial insulin 
to account f or nutritional intak e and the 
correction dose based on pr emeal glucose 
levels, anticipated activity , and sick -da y 
management can be eff ective and should 
be off ered to most individuals ( 46 – 51 ). Ed -
ucation reg ar ding adjustment of prandial 
insulin dose f or glyc emic trends should be 
provided to individuals who are using 
CGM alone or an AID sys tem ( 52 – 55 ). Fur -
ther adjust ment of prandial insulin doses 
f or nutritional intak e of prot ein and fat, 
in addition to carboh ydr ates, is recom -
mended but may be more f easible f or in -
dividuals using CSII than f or those using 
multiple daily injections ( 48 ). With some 
AID sys te ms, use of a simplified meal an -
nouncement method may be an alt erna -
tive f or prandia l insulin dosing ( 31 , 56 ). 
Assessment and education tailor ed to im -
prov e health lite racy and numera cy ma y 
be necessary f or individuals to eff ectively 
use various insulin dosing str at egies and 
tools ( 57 , 58 ) (see section 5, “ Facilita ting 
Pos itive Health Behavi ors and Well-being to 
Improve Health Outco mes ,” and section 7, 
“ Diabete s Technology ”).
The 2021 ADA/Eur opean Association 
f or the Study of Diabetes (EASD) consen -
sus report on the management of type 1 
diabetes in adults summariz es diff erent 
insulin plans and glucose monitoring str at -
egies in individuals with type 1 diabetes 
( Fig. 9.1 and Table 9.1 ) ( 4 ). An individual’ s 
treat ment plan and insulin-taking behav -
iors should be fr equently r eassessed to at -
tain individualiz ed treat ment goals and 
assess risk or prog ression of complications 
and comorbidities. The timing of reassess -
ment may vary based on time since diag -
nosis, ability to att ain/maintain tr eatment 
goals, health s tatus, comorbidities, and in -
dividual needs ( 4 , 45 , 59 ).
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S187 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Initiation and titration of insulin
INITIATION 2 coverage
TITRATION Uptitrate or downtitrate as necessary, adjusting basal and prandial doses based on  
 individualized goals for A1C, CGM, and SMBG
Assess adequacy of insulin dose and 
insulin-taking behaviors at every visit
Consider person-specific considerations 
and clinical signs to evaluate for need for 
modification of administration method 
(switch to or from MDI, AID, inhaled insulin) 
and for overbasalization (e.g., elevated 
bedtime-to-morning and/or postprandial-
to-preprandial differential, hypoglycemia 
[aware or unaware], high glucose variability)
Considerations for starting insulin
Choice of insulin(s) and administration method should be based on person-specific considerations 
including progression and severity of insulin deficiency, initial presentation with DKA,1 and/or 
concomitant overweight or obesity  
Glucagon should be prescribed for emergent hypoglycemia
If hypoglycemia is present, adjust basal and/or
prandial insulin based on the timing of 
3,4
If hyperglycemia is present,  adjust basal
and/or prandial insulin based on the timing 
and extent of hyperglycemia (e.g., 1  
units or 10% dosage adjustments) 3,4
If fasting hyperglycemia is present, 
review overnight glucose pattern 
(using CGM, if available) and adjust 
basal insulin, if appropriate
If postprandial hyperglycemia 
is present, assess and educate to 
ensure prandial administration is 
appropriately timed and adjusted 
for nutrient intake (dosing may be 
fixed based on general intake or 
variable based on macronutrient
and/or glycemic trends, depending 
on individual preference and ability)
If A1C, CGM metrics, or SMBG not at goal 
Reassess frequently using CGM and/or SMBG to determine 
individual needs for prandial and basal dosing balance 
Support healthy lifestyle behaviors, deliver diabetes self-management education and 
support, and address social determinants of health to meet individualized treatment goals 
To avoid 
therapeutic 
inertia, reassess 
and modify 
treatment 
regularly 
1. Refer to section 16, "Diabetes Care in the Hospital," for information on care during hospitalizations.
2. Prandial insulin options include: injectable rapid-acting and ultra-rapid-acting analog insulins, injectable short-acting human insulin, and inhaled human insulin.
3. Amount of dosage adjustment may vary between individuals depending on their severity of insulin deficiency and/or insulin re
4. Adjustment may be done by their diabetes care team or by individuals, with guidance provided by their diabetes care team, as frequently as once to twice weekly using the lowest levels or average of the 
Initiation and adjustment of insulin using multiple daily dosing in individuals with type 1 diabetes
Figure 9.2—Insulin initiation and adjustment for people with type 1 diabetes using multiple daily dosing. AID, automated insulin delivery; CGM, 
continuous glucose monitoring; DKA, diabetic ketoacidosis; MDI, multiple daily injections; SMBG, self-monitoring of blood glucose. 
Insulin Administration Technique
Ensuring that individuals and/or caregivers 
understand correct insulin administration 
technique is important to optimize glyce-
mic management and insulin use safety. 
Advanced insulin injection technique and 
education with FITTER Forward expert rec-
ommendations have been published else-
where outlining best practices for insulin 
administration (
60). Proper insulin admin-
istration technique includes the following: 
injection, insertion of patch (for bolus 
patch or fixed-rate patch pump) or infu-
sion set (for CSII or AID systems) into ap-
propriate body areas, or oral inhalation 
(inhaled human insulin); injection or infu
-
sion site rotation; appropriate care of 
injection or infusion sites to avoid infec-
tion or other complications; avoidance of 
intramuscular (IM) insulin delivery; and 
filling of the reservoir (for bolus patch, 
CSII, or AID systems) or inhaler (for in -
haled human insulin) depending on the 
method of administration. Selection of 
method of administration (vial and syringe, 
insulin pen, insulin patch, inhaled insulin, 
connected insulin pens/devices, or insulin 
pumps) will depend on a variety of indi
-
vidual-specific factors and needs, cost 
and coverage, and individual preferen -
ces. Reassessment of the appropriate 
administration technique should be com-
pleted during routine follow-up.
Exogenously delivered insulin should 
be injected or infused into subcutaneous 
tissue, not intramuscularly. Recommended 
sites for insulin administration include the 
abdomen, thigh, buttock, and upper arm. 
Insulin absorption from IM sites differs 
from that in subcutaneous sites and is also 
influenced by the activity of the muscle. 
Inadvertent IM injection can lead to un
-
predictable insulin absorption and variable 
effects on glucose and is associated with 
frequent and unexplained hypoglycemia. 
Size 4-mm pen needles should be used to 
reduce inadvertent IM insulin delivery 
across ages and body types. IM risk is 
higher in younger, leaner individuals, with 
injections into limbs rather than truncal 
S188 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
sites (abdomen, buttocks), and with lon-
ger needles. Short needles (e.g., 4-mm) 
are effective and well tolerated compared 
with longer needles, including in adults 
with obesity (61).
Injection or infusion site rotation is 
necessary to avoid lipohypertrophy, an 
accumulation of subcutaneous fat in re
-
sponse to the adipogenic actions of insulin 
at a site of multiple injections. Lipohyper-
trophy appears as soft, smooth raised 
areas several centimeters in breadth and 
can contribute to erratic insulin absorp-
tion, increased glycemic variability, and 
unexplained hypoglycemic episodes. Peo-
ple treated with insulin and/or caregivers 
should receive education about proper in
-
jection or infusion site rotation and how 
to recognize and avoid injecting in areas of 
lipohypertrophy (60). As noted in Table 4.1, 
examination of insulin administration sites 
for the presence of lipohypertrophy, as 
well as assessment of administration de
-
vice use and injection technique, are key 
components of a comprehensive diabetes 
evaluation and treatment plan. Proper in-
sulin injection, infusion, or inhalation tech-
nique may lead to more effective use of 
this therapy and, as such, holds the po -
tential for improved clinical outcomes.
Noninsulin Treatments for Type 1 
Diabetes
Injectable and oral noninsulin glucose- 
lowering medications have been studied 
for their efficacy as adjuncts to insulin 
treatment of type 1 diabetes. Pramlintide 
is based on the naturally occurring β-cell 
peptide amylin and is approved for use in 
adults with type 1 diabetes. Clinical trials 
have demonstrated a modest reduction 
in A1C (0.3–0.4%) and modest weight loss 
(∼1–2 kg) with pramlintide (62
). Similar 
results have been reported for several 
agents currently approved for the treat
-
ment of type 2 diabetes. The addition of 
metformin in adults with type 1 diabetes 
was associated with small reductions in 
body weight, insulin dose, and lipid levels 
but did not sustainably improve A1C 
(
63,64). The largest clinical trials of glucagon- 
like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) 
in type 1 diabetes have been conducted 
with liraglutide 1.8 mg daily, and results 
showed modest A1C reductions (∼0.4%
), 
decreases in weight (∼5 kg), and reduc-
tions in insulin doses (65,66). Higher rates 
of DKA and gastrointestinal side effects 
have limited their use in type 1 diabetes. 
Liraglutide was also assessed for impact 
on C-peptide in individuals with type 1 
diabetes and residual β-cell function. Dur
-
ing treatment there was no impact on 
preservation of β-cell function, but with lir-
aglutide discontinuation there was wors-
ening of C-peptide loss compared with 
placebo (
67). Small retrospective case se-
ries and pilot studies have revealed poten-
tial benefits on body weight and glycemic 
metrics with addition of semaglutide or 
tirzepatide for individuals with type 1 dia-
betes and obesity ( 68–72). Prospective 
studies on use of incretin medications (i.e., 
GLP-1 RAs or a dual glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic polypeptide [GIP] and GLP-1 
RA) for individuals with type 1 diabetes are 
ongoing and include evaluation of cardio
-
vascular and kidney outcomes and other 
aspects of care (73–76).
Sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) 
inhibitors have been studied in clinical tri-
als in people with type 1 diabetes, and 
results showed improvements in A1C, re-
duced body weight, and improved blood 
pressure (
77); however, SGLT2 inhibitor 
use in type 1 diabetes was associated with 
an increased rate of DKA (78). The SGLT1/2 
inhibitor sotagliflozin has been studied in 
clinical trials in people with type 1 diabetes, 
and results showed improvements in A1C 
and body weight (79
); however, sotagliflo-
zin use was associated with an eightfold in-
crease in DKA compared with placebo (80). 
The studies that led to the approved indica-
tion for heart failure (HF) excluded individu-
als with type 1 diabetes or a history of DKA 
(81,82). Sotagliflozin is therefore ap -
proved for HF and chronic kidney disease 
(CKD) but contraindicated in type 1 dia -
betes due to DKA risk. See SGLT INHIBITION 
AND RISK OF KETOSIS, later in this section, and 
PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF HEART FAILURE in 
section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and 
Risk Management,” for inf
ormation on 
risk mitigation with the use of SGLT inhib-
itors in those with type 1 diabetes. The 
risks and benefits of adjunctive agents 
continue to be evaluated, with consensus 
statements providing guidance on selec
-
tion of candidates for treatment and pre-
cautions (83).
There are currently no approved thera-
pies for preservation of C-peptide or prolon-
gation of the partial remission (honeymoon) 
phase in individuals with established stage 3 
type 1 diabetes. Teplizumab was approved 
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
(FDA) in 2022 for delay of the progression 
from stage 2 to stage 3 type 1 diabetes (for 
additional guidance for use in early stage 
type 1 diabetes, refer to section 3, 
“
Prevention or Delay of Diabetes and 
Associated Comorbidities”), but it 
is not 
indicated for those with established stage 3 
type 1 diabetes (84). Higher C-peptide 
levels have been associated with better 
A1C, lower risk of retinopathy, lower risk 
of nephropathy, and lower risk of severe 
hypoglycemia (85
). Various therapies, in-
cluding verapamil, menin inhibitors, Janus 
kinase inhibitors, antithymocyte globulin, 
several monoclonal antibodies including 
teplizumab, and cell therapies, are cur
-
rently under active investigation (86).
SURGICAL TREATMENT OF TYPE 1 
DIABETES
Pancreas and Islet Transplantation
Successful pancreas and islet transplanta-
tion can normalize glucose levels and miti-
gate microvascular complications of type 1 
diabetes. However, people receiving these 
treatments require lifelong immunosup
-
pression to prevent graft rejection and/or 
recurrence of autoimmune islet destruc
-
tion. Given the potential adverse effects 
of immunosuppressive therapy, pancreas 
transplantation should be reserved for 
people with type 1 diabetes undergoing 
simultaneous kidney transplantation, fol
-
lowing kidney transplantation, or for those 
with recurrent ketoacidosis or severe hy
-
poglycemia despite optimized glycemic 
management (87). In much of the world, 
allogenic islet transplantation is regu -
lated as an organ transplant. However, in 
the U.S., allogenic islet transplantation is 
regulated as a cell therapy, and the first 
such allogeneic islet cell therapy, donislecel- 
jujn, was approved in 2023. Donislecel is in
-
dicated for the treatment of adults with 
type 1 diabetes who are unable to reach 
their A1C goals because of repeated epi
-
sodes of severe hypoglycemia despite inten-
sive diabetes management and education 
(
88). Alternative islet sources are currently 
under active investigation.
The 2021 ADA/EASD consensus report 
on the management of type 1 diabetes in 
adults offers a simplified overview of indi-
cations for β-cell replacement therapy in 
people with type 1 diabetes (Fig. 9.3) (4).
PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY FOR 
ADULTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES
Recommendations
9.5 A person-centered shared decision- 
making approach should guide the 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S189 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
choice of glucose-lowering medica -
tions for adults with type 2 diabetes. 
Use medications that provide suffi -
cient effectiveness to achieve and 
maintain intended treatment goals 
with consideration of the effects on 
cardiovascular, kidney, weight, and 
other relevant comorbidities; hypogly
-
cemia risk; cost and access; risk for ad-
verse reactions and tolerability; and 
individual preferences (Fig. 9.4 and 
Table 9.2). E
9.6 Consider combination therapy in 
adults with type 2 diabetes for initial 
treatment to shorten time to attain
-
ment of individualized glycemic goals. A
9.7 In adults with type 2 diabetes and 
established or high risk of atheroscle-
rotic cardiovascular disease, the treat-
ment plan should include medications 
with demonstrated benefits to reduce 
cardiovascular events (e.g., glucagon- 
like peptide 1 receptor agonist [GLP-1 
RA] and/or sodium
–glucose cotrans-
porter 2 [SGLT2] inhibitor) for glyce-
mic management and comprehensive 
cardiovascular risk reduction (irrespective 
of A1C) (
Fig. 9.4and Table 9.2). A
9.8 In adults with type 2 diabetes who 
have heart failure (HF) (with either re-
duced or preserved ejection fraction), 
an SGLT2 inhibitor is recommended 
for both glycemic management and 
prevention of HF hospitalizations (ir
-
respective of A1C) (Fig. 9.4). A
9.9a In adults with type 2 diabetes, 
obesity, and symptomatic heart fail -
ure with preserved ejection fraction 
(HFpEF), the glucose-lowering treatment 
plan should include a dual glucose- 
dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
(GIP) and GLP-1 RA with demonstrated 
benefits for HF-related symptoms and 
reduction in HF events (irrespective of 
A1C). A
9.9b In adults with type 2 diabetes, 
obesity, and symptomatic HFpEF, the 
glucose-lowering treatment plan should 
include a GLP-1 RA with demonstrated 
benefits for HF-related symptoms A 
and/or reduction in HF events (irre
-
spective of A1C). B
9.10 In adults with type 2 diabetes 
who have chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
(with confirmed estimated glomerular 
filtration rate [eGFR] 20–60 mL/min/ 
1.73 m2 and/or albuminuria), an SGLT2 
inhibitor or GLP-1 RA with demonstrated 
benefit in this population should be 
used for both glycemic management 
and for slowing progression of CKD and 
reduction in cardiovascular events (ir
-
respective of A1C) (Fig. 9.4). The gly-
cemic benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors 
are reduced at eGFR <45 mL/min/ 
1.73 m
2. A
9.11 In adults with type 2 diabetes 
and advanced CKD (eGFR <30 mL/ 
min/1.73 m2), a GLP-1 RA is preferred 
for glycemic management due to lower 
risk of hypoglycemia and for cardiovas
-
cular event reduction. B Individuals on 
dialysis can be safely initiated or con-
tinued on GLP-1–based therapy (that 
is not dependent on kidney clear -
ance) to reduce cardiovascular risk 
and mortality. C
9.12 In adults with type 2 diabetes, 
metabolic dysfunction–associated stea-
totic liver disease (MASLD), and over-
weight or obesity, consider using a 
GLP-1 RA with demonstrated benefits 
in metabolic dysfunction –associated 
steatohepatitis (MASH) A or a dual 
Simplified overview of indications for β-cell replacement therapy in people with type 1 diabetes
Pancreas after 
kidney
Islet after 
kidney
Simultaneous 
islet and 
kidney
Pancreas 
transplantation 
alone
Simultaneous 
pancreas and 
kidney
Islet 
transplantation 
alone
Balancing surgical risk, metabolic need, and the choice of the individual with diabetes
Severe chronic kidney disease
73 m2)
Severe metabolic complications
• Hypoglycemia
• Hypoglycemia unawareness
• Ketoacidosis
• Incapacitating problems with exogenous insulin therapy
• Failure of insulin-based management to prevent acute 
complications
Living donor kidney Simultaneous transplantation
Impaired kidney function Intact/stable kidney function
Figure 9.3—Simplified overview of indications for β-cell replacement therapy in people with type 1 diabetes. The two main forms of β-cell replace-
ment therapy are whole-pancreas transplantation and islet cell transplantation. β-Cell replacement therapy can be combined with kidney trans-
plantation if the individual has kidney failure, which may be performed simultaneously or after kidney transplantation. All decisions about 
transplantation must consider the surgical risk, metabolic need, and the choices of the individual with diabetes. GFR, glomerular filtration rate. 
Adapted from Holt et al. (
4). 
S190 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Efficacy for glucose lowering
Very high:
Dulaglutide (high dose), 
semaglutide, tirzepatide, insulin
Combination oral, combination 
High:
pioglitazone, SGLT2i, sulfonylurea
Intermediate:
≈
• 
SGLT2i with proven CVD benefit or vice versa
• Pioglitazone^
• Refer to DSMES to support self-efficacy in achievement of 
treatment goal
• 
identify therapeutic gaps and tailor therapy
• Identify and address SDOH that affect achievement of
treatment goals
with proven 
CVD benefit
If glycemia is above goal
If additional cardiovascular and kidney risk reduction, management of other 
metabolic comorbidities, and/or glycemic lowering is needed
If glycemia is above goal or significant hypoglycemia 
or hyperglycemia or barriers to care are identified
SGLT2i‡ with 
proven CVD 
benefit
measurement is required to confirm CKD
SGLT2i‡ with proven 
HF benefit in current 
or prior symptom s 
of HFrEF or HFpEF
SGLT2i and/or either 
proven benefit in 
symptomatic HFpEF 
and obesity
Efficacy 
for weight 
loss
Very high:
Semaglutide, 
tirzepatide
High:
Dulaglutide, 
liraglutide
Intermediate:
listed above), 
SGLT2i
Neutral:
Metformin, 
Agents with proven or potential benefit in MASLD or MASH
Use insulin in the setting of decompensated cirrhosis
Metformin or other agent (including 
combination therapy) that provides 
adequate efficacy to achieve and
maintain glycemic treatment goals.
Prioritize avoidance of hypoglycemia 
in high risk individuals
Goal: cardiovascular and kidney risk reduction* Goal: achievement and maintenance
of weight and glycemic goals
To avoid 
therapeutic 
inertia, reassess 
and modify 
treatment 
regularly 
If glycemia is above goal, for individuals 
on SGLT2i, consider incorporating 
SGLT2i‡ with primary evidence 
of reducing CKD progression
• SGLT2i can be started wit h
eGFR ≥20 mL/min/1.73 m
• Glucose-lowering efficacy is reduced
GLP-1 RA# with proven CKD benefit
OR
†  
≈ 
# 
‡ 
^   Low-dose pioglitazone may be better tolerated and similarly effective as higher doses.  
ischemic attack, unstable angina, amputation, and symptomatic or asymptomatic coronary artery disease. Indicators of high risk: While definitions vary, most comprise ≥55 years of age with two or more 
additional risk factors (including obesity, hypertension, smoking, dyslipidemia, or albuminuria).
A strong recommendation is warranted for people with CVD and a weaker recommendation for those with indicators of high risk CVD. Moreover, a higher absolute risk reduction and thus lower numbers needed     
to treat are seen at higher levels of baseline risk and should be factored into the shared decision-making process. See text for details.
For SGLT2is, CV and kidney outcomes trials demonstrate their efficacy in reducing the risks of composite MACE, CV death, all-cause mortality, MI, HHF, and kidney outcomes in individuals with T2D and  
established or high risk of CVD.
(For recommendations for specific conditions, including non-glucose-lowering medications, refer to pertinent sections)
Healthy lifestyle behaviors; diabetes self-management
education and support; social determinants of health
(3–6/nobreakspacemonths)
+ASCVD† +Indicators of
high CVD risk +HF +CKD
eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m or albuminuria
(ACR ≥3.0 mg/mmol [30 mg/g]). Repeat
+ASCVD/indicators of high CVD risk≈
GLP-1 RA#
+CKD (on maximally tolerated
dose of ACEi or ARB)
with eGFR <45 mL/min/1.73 m
a GLP-1 RA or vice versa
dual GIP/GLP-1 RA
or GLP-1 RA with
For individuals on a GLP-1 RA, consider adding
+Mitigating risk of MASLD or MASH
GLP-1 RA, dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, pioglitazone, or combination of GLP-1 RA with pioglitazone
In people with HF, CKD, established CVD, or multiple risk factors for CVD, the decision to use a GLP-1 RA or SGLT2i with proven benefit should be made irrespective of attainment of glycemic goal.
ASCVD: Defined differently across CVOTs but all included individuals with established CVD (e.g., MI, stroke, and arterial revascularization procedure) and variably included conditions such as transient 
For GLP-1 RAs, CVOTs demonstrate their efficacy in reducing composite MACE, CV death, all-cause mortality, MI, stroke, and kidney end points in individuals with T2D with established or high risk of CVD. One
kidney outcome trial demonstrated benefit in reducing persistent eGFR reduction and CV death for a GLP-1 RA in individuals with CKD and T2D.
+Weight
management
/uni002B.caseAchievement and maintenance
of glycemic goals
GLP-1 RA (not
DPP-4i
DPP-4i
injectable (GLP-1 RA  and insulin)
GLP-1 RA (not listed above), metformin,
Consider technology (e.g., diagnostic or personal CGM) to
Use of glucose-lowering medications in the management of type 2 diabetes
Figure 9.4—Use of glucose-lowering medications in the management of type 2 diabetes. The left side of the algorithm prioritizes mitigation of 
diabetes-related complications and end-organ effects, while the right side addresses weight and glucose management goals. ACEi, angiotensincon-
verting enzyme inhibitor; ACR, albumin-to-creatinine ratio; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; 
CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; CVD, cardiovascular disease; CVOT, cardiovascular out -
comes trial; DPP-4i, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitor; DSMES, diabetes self-management education and support; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtra-
tion rate; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; HFpEF, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; HFrEF, heart 
failure with reduced ejection fraction; HHF, hospitalization for heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular events; MASH, metabolic 
dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MI, myocardial infarction; SDOH, social determi-
nants of health; SGLT2i, sodium
–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor; T2D, type 2 diabetes. Adapted from Davies et al. (90). 
diabetesjournals.org/care Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S191 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
A holistic, multifaceted, person-centered 
approach that accounts for the complex-
ity of managing type 2 diabetes and its 
complications across the life span is rec-
ommended. Person-specific factors that 
affect choice of treatment include indi
-
vidualized glycemic goals (see section 6, 
“
Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and 
Hyperglycemic Crises” ), 
individualized 
weight goals (see section 8, “Obesity and 
Weight Management for the Prevention 
and Treatment of Diabetes ”), 
the indi-
vidual’s risk for hypoglycemia, and the in-
dividual’s history of or risk factors for 
cardiovascular, kidney, liver, and other 
comorbidities and complications of dia -
betes (see section 4, “Comprehensive 
Medical Evaluation and Assessment of 
Comorbidities,” section 
10, “Cardiovascular 
Disease and Risk Management,” and 
sec-
tion 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk 
Management”). 
In addition, treatment 
decisions must consider the tolerability 
and side effect profiles of medications, 
complexity of the medication plan and 
the individual’s capacity to implement it 
given their specific situation and context, 
and the access, cost, and availability of 
medications. Lifestyle modifications and 
health behaviors that improve health 
(see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health 
Behaviors and Well-being to Improve 
Health Outcomes
”) 
should be empha-
sized along with any pharmacologic 
therapy. Section 13, “Older Adults,” and 
section 
14, “Children and Adolescents,” 
hav
e recommendations specific for older 
adults and for children and adolescents 
with type 2 diabetes, respectively. Sec
-
tion 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and Risk 
Management,” and 
section 11, “Chronic 
Kidney Disease and Risk Management ,” 
ha
ve recommendations for the use of 
glucose-lowering drugs in the management 
of cardiovascular disease and kidney dis-
ease, respectively.
GIP and GLP-1 RA with potential ben-
efits in MASH B for glycemic manage-
ment and as an adjunctive therapy 
to interventions for weight loss.
9.13a In adults with type 2 diabetes 
and biopsy-proven MASH or those at 
high risk for liver fibrosis (based on 
noninvasive tests), a GLP-1 RA is pre
-
ferred for glycemic management due 
to beneficial effects on MASH. A Pio
-
glitazone or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA 
B can be considered for glycemic man
-
agement due to potential beneficial ef-
fects on MASH. B
9.13b Combination therapy with pio-
glitazone plus a GLP-1 RA can be 
considered for the treatment of hyper-
glycemia in adults with type 2 diabetes 
with biopsy-proven MASH or those at 
high risk of liver fibrosis (identified 
with noninvasive tests) due to poten
-
tial beneficial effects on MASH. B
9.14 Medication plan and medication- 
taking behavior should be reeval -
uated at regular intervals (e.g., every 
3–6 months) and adjusted as needed 
to incorporate specific factors that af-
fect choice of treatment and ensure 
achievement of individualized glyce
-
mic goals (Fig. 4.1and Table 9.2). E
9.15 Treatment modification (including 
intensification or deintensification) for 
adults not meeting individualized treat
-
ment goals should not be delayed. A
9.16 Choice of glucose-lowering 
therapy modification should take into 
consideration individualized glycemic 
and weight goals, presence of comor
-
bidities (cardiovascular, kidney, liver, and 
other metabolic comorbidities), and the 
risk of hypoglycemia. A
9.17 When initiating a new glucose- 
lowering medication, reassess the 
need for and/or dose of medications 
with higher hypoglycemia risk (i.e., sul
-
fonylureas, meglitinides, and insulin) to 
minimize the risk of hypoglycemia and 
treatment burden. A
9.18 Concurrent use of dipeptidyl pep-
tidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors with a GLP-1 
RA or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA is not 
recommended due to lack of additional 
glucose lowering beyond that of a 
GLP-1
–based therapy. B
9.19 In adults with type 2 diabetes 
who have not achieved their individu-
alized weight goals, additional weight 
management interventions (e.g., in
-
tensification of lifestyle modifications, 
structured weight management pro-
grams, pharmacologic agents, or met-
abolic surgery, as appropriate) are 
recommended. A
9.20 In adults with type 2 diabetes, ini-
tiation of insulin should be considered 
regardless of background glucose- 
lowering therapy or disease duration 
if symptoms of hyperglycemia are pre-
sent or when A1C or blood glucose 
levels are very high (i.e., A1C >10
% 
[>86 mmol/mol] or blood glucose 
≥300 mg/dL [≥16.7 mmol/L]). E
9.21 In adults with type 2 diabetes 
without severe hyperglycemia or hy-
perglycemic crisis, GLP-1–based ther-
apy is preferred to insulin for initial 
or add-on glucose-lowering therapy 
(
Fig. 9.4). A
9.22 If insulin is used, combination 
therapy with a GLP-1 RA, including a 
dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, is recom
-
mended for greater glycemic effec -
tiveness as well as beneficial effects 
on weight and hypoglycemia risk for 
adults with type 2 diabetes. Insulin 
dosing should be reassessed upon 
addition or dose escalation of a GLP-1 
RA or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA. A
9.23 In adults with type 2 diabetes 
who are initiating insulin therapy, con-
tinue glucose-lowering agents (unless 
contraindicated or not tolerated) for 
ongoing glycemic and metabolic bene
-
fits (i.e., weight, cardiometabolic, or 
kidney benefits). A
Choice of Glucose-Lowering Therapy
Healthy lifestyle behaviors, diabetes 
self-management education and support 
(DSMES), avoidance of therapeutic inertia, 
and social determinants of health should 
be considered in the glucose-lowering 
management of type 2 diabetes. Pharma
-
cologic therapy should be guided by person- 
centered treatment factors, including 
comorbidities, considerations of ad
-
verse effects (including hypoglycemia), 
treatment burden, and treatment goals 
and preferences. Shared decision-making 
can be facilitated during clinical encounters 
through use of decision aides and has been 
shown to improve A1C in adults with type 
2 diabetes, though in clinical trials the ben
-
efits of shared decision-making were lim-
ited to face-to-face discussions (not online 
encounters) and to individuals with ele-
vated A1C (>
8%) (89). Pharmacotherapy 
should be started at the time type 2 dia-
betes is diagnosed, without delay, unless 
there are contraindications. Medication 
plans should have adequate efficacy to 
achieve and maintain individualized treat
-
ment goals with respect to glucose low-
ering, reduction of cardiovascular and 
kidney disease risks, weight manage
-
ment, and effects on other health condi-
tions and treatment burden. In adults 
with type 2 diabetes and established or 
high risk of ath eroscler
otic cardiovascular 
disease (ASCVD), HF, and/or CKD, the 
S192 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.2—Features of medications for lowering glucose in type 2 diabetes
Medication 
(route of 
administration)
Glucose-lowering 
efficacy
1
Hypoglycemia 
risk Weight effects2
CV effects Kidney effects
MASH effects
Clinical considerations and adverse 
effectsEffect on MACE Effect on HF
Progression of 
CKD Dosing/use considerations*
Metformin (oral) High No Neutral (potential 
for modest loss)
Potential benefit Neutral Neutral • Contraindicated with 
eGFR <30 mL/min/ 
1.73 m2 
Neutral • GI side effects: mitigate 
with slow dose titration,  
extended-release formula
-
tions, and administration 
with food 
• Potential for vitamin B12  
deficiency: monitor and  
replete as appropriate 
SGLT2 inhibitors 
(oral)
Intermediate to 
high
No Loss (intermediate) Benefit: 
canagliflozin, 
empagliflozin
Benefit: 
canagliflozin, 
dapagliflozin, 
empagliflozin, 
ertugliflozin
Benefit: 
canagliflozin, 
empagliflozin, 
dapagliflozin
•
See labels of individ -
ual agents for dosage 
considerations for  
kidney function 
• Glucose-lowering  
effect is minimal at 
eGFR <
45 mL/min/ 
1.73 m2 and lower; 
continue or start for 
cardiovascular and 
kidney benefit if eGFR 
>20 mL/min/1.73 m
2. 
May continue until  
dialysis or transplantation 
Unknown • DKA risk in individuals with 
insulin deficiency (rare in 
T2D): discontinue, evaluate, 
and treat promptly if sus
-
pected; be aware of predis -
posing risk factors and clini -
cal presentations (including  
euglycemic DKA); mitigate 
risk with sick-day planning; 
discontinue before sched
-
uled surgery (e.g., 3 –4 
days), during critical illness, 
or during prolonged fasting 
• Genital mycotic infections: 
mitigate risk with genital  
hygiene and avoid use in 
high-risk individuals 
•
Urosepsis and pyelonephri-
tis: evaluate individuals for 
signs and symptoms of  
urinary tract infections and 
treat promptly 
• Necrotizing fasciitis in the  
perineum (Fournier gangrene): 
rare; prompt treatment if 
suspected 
• Intravascular volume deple-
tion: attention to volume 
status and blood pressure, 
particularly when ill or fast
-
ing; adjust other volume- 
contracting agents as appli
-
cable; monitor kidney func -
tion upon initiation 
Continued on p. S194
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S193 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.2—Continued
Medication 
(route of 
administration)
Glucose-lowering 
efficacy
1
Hypoglycemia 
risk Weight effects2
CV effects Kidney effects
MASH effects
Clinical considerations and adverse 
effectsEffect on MACE Effect on HF
Progression of 
CKD Dosing/use considerations*
GLP-1 RAs (SQ; 
semaglutide 
also available 
in oral 
formulation)
High to very high No Loss (intermediate 
to very high)
Benefit: 
dulaglutide, 
liraglutide, 
semaglutide (SQ 
and oral)
Benefit: 
semaglutide 
(SQ)
Benefit for 
kidney end 
points in 
CVOTs, driven 
by 
albuminuria 
outcomes: 
dulaglutide, 
liraglutide, 
semaglutide 
(SQ)
•
See labels of individ -
ual agents for dosage 
considerations for  
kidney function 
• No dose adjustment 
for dulaglutide,  
liraglutide, or 
semaglutide 
• Monitor kidney  
function when initiat-
ing or escalating 
doses in individuals 
with kidney impair
-
ment reporting severe 
adverse GI reactions 
Benefit: 
semaglutide 
(SQ)
• Thyroid C-cell tumors identi -
fied in rodents; human rele -
vance not determined 
• Provide guidance on discon -
tinuation prior to surgical 
procedures to mitigate  
potential for pulmonary  
aspiration with general  
anesthesia or deep sedation 
• Pancreatitis: acute pancrea-
titis has been reported, but 
causality has not been  
established; do not initiate if 
at high risk for pancreatitis, 
and discontinue if pancreati
-
tis is suspected 
• Biliary disease: evaluate for 
gallbladder disease if chole
-
lithiasis or cholecystitis is 
suspected; avoid use in at-risk 
individuals 
• Ileus: reported, but risk 
level is not well established 
• Diabetic retinopathy: close 
monitoring of retinopathy in 
those at high risk (older  
individuals and those with 
longer duration of T2D  
[
≥10 years]) 
• Nonarteritic anterior ische-
mic optic neuropathy 
(NAION) reported (rare inci -
dence); monitor for NAION 
during eye examinations 
• Impact on drug absorption: 
orally administered drug ab -
sorption may be impaired 
during dose titration (includ -
ing oral contraceptives) 
• GI side effects: counsel on 
potential for GI side effects; 
provide guidance on dietary 
modifications to mitigate GI 
side effects (reduction in 
meal size, mindful eating 
practices [e.g., stop eating 
Neutral: exenatide 
once weekly, 
lixisenatide
Demonstrated 
benefit for 
progression of 
CKD for 
semaglutide 
(SQ)
Dual GIP and 
GLP-1 RA (SQ)
Very high No Loss (very high) Under investigation Benefit: 
tirzepatide
Potential benefit •
See labels of individ -
ual agents for dosage 
considerations for  
kidney function 
• No dose adjustment 
• Monitor kidney function 
when initiating or esca
-
lating doses in individu-
als with kidney impair-
ment reporting severe 
adverse GI reactions 
Potential benefit
Continued on p. S195
S194 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.2—Continued
Medication 
(route of 
administration)
Glucose-lowering 
efficacy1
Hypoglycemia 
risk Weight effects2
CV effects Kidney effects
MASH effects
Clinical considerations and adverse 
effectsEffect on MACE Effect on HF
Progression of 
CKD Dosing/use considerations*
once full], decreasing intake 
of high-fat or spicy food); 
consider slower dose titra
-
tion for those experiencing 
GI challenges; not recom
-
mended for individuals with 
gastroparesis 
DPP-4 inhibitors 
(oral)
Intermediate No Neutral Neutral Neutral 
(potential risk: 
saxagliptin)
Neutral • Dose adjustment  
required based on 
kidney function  
(sitagliptin, saxagliptin, 
alogliptin) 
• No dose adjustment 
required for 
linagliptin 
Unknown • Pancreatitis has been reported 
but causality has not been 
established; discontinue if 
pancreatitis is suspected 
• Postmarketing concerns 
about joint pain (consider 
discontinuing if debilitating 
and other treatment options 
are feasible) and bullous 
pemphigoid (discontinue if 
suspected) reversible upon 
discontinuation 
Pioglitazone 
(oral)
High No Gain Potential benefit Increased risk Neutral • No dose adjustment 
required 
•
Generally not recom-
mended in kidney 
impairment due to 
potential for fluid 
retention 
Potential benefit • Increased risk of HF and 
fluid retention; do not use 
in setting of HF 
• Risk of bone fractures 
• Bladder cancer: do not use 
in individuals with active 
bladder cancer, and use  
caution in those with prior 
history of bladder cancer; 
association observed with 
higher cumulative exposure 
(e.g., longer duration, higher 
doses) 
Sulfonylureas 
(2nd 
generation) 
(oral)
High Yes Gain Neutral Neutral Neutral • Glyburide: generally 
not recommended in 
CKD 
• Glipizide and glimepiride: 
initiate conservatively to 
avoid hypoglycemia 
Unknown •
FDA Special Warning on in -
creased risk of CV mortality 
based on studies of an older 
sulfonylurea (tolbutamide); 
glimepiride shown to be CV 
safe (see text) 
• Use with caution in individ -
uals at risk for hypoglyce -
mia, particularly if in combi -
nation with insulin 
Continued on p. S196
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S195 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Table 9.2—Continued
Medication 
(route of 
administration)
Glucose-lowering 
efficacy1
Hypoglycemia 
risk Weight effects2
CV effects Kidney effects
MASH effects
Clinical considerations and adverse 
effectsEffect on MACE Effect on HF
Progression of 
CKD Dosing/use considerations*
Insulin (human) 
(SQ
; regular 
insulin also 
available as 
inhaled 
formulation)
High to very high Yes Gain Neutral Neutral Neutral • Lower insulin doses 
required with a  
decrease in eGFR;  
titrate per clinical 
response 
Unknown • Injection site reactions 
• Higher risk of hypoglycemia 
with human insulin (NPH or 
premixed formulations) vs. 
analogs 
• Risk of hypoglycemia and 
duration of activity  
increases with severity of 
impaired kidney function 
• Refer to device-specific  
instructions for insulins 
compatible with different 
delivery systems (i.e., 
pumps, connected insulin 
pens, insulin patches) 
Insulin (analogs) 
(SQ)
CKD, chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; DKA, diabetic ketoacidosis; DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate; FDA, U.S. Food and Drug Administration; GI, gastro -
intestinal; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular events; MASH, metabolic dys -
function-associated steatohepatitis; SGLT2, sodium –glucose cotransporter 2; SQ, subcutaneous; T2D, type 2 diabetes. *For agent-specific dosing recommendations, please refer to manufacturers’ 
prescribing information. 1Tsapas et al. (107). 2Tsapas et al. (317). Adapted from Davies et al. (90).
treatment plan should include agents 
that reduce cardiovascular and kidney 
disease risk (Fig. 9.4 and Table 9.2) 
(see also section 10, “Cardiovascular 
Disease and Risk Management,” and 
section 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and 
Risk Management”).
In individuals without ASCVD, HF, or 
CKD, choice of therapy should be in -
formed by considerations of weight man-
agement (see section 8, “Obesity and 
Weight Management for the Prevention 
and Treatment of Diabetes”), mitigation 
of metabolic dysfunction–
associated stea-
totic liver disease (MASLD) or metabolic 
dysfunction
–associated steatohepatitis 
(MASH) risk (see section 4, “Comprehensive 
Medical Evaluation and Assessment of 
Comorbidities”), and 
achievement and 
maintenance of individualized glycemic 
goals. In general, higher-efficacy approaches, 
including combination therapy, have greater 
likelihood of achieving treatment goals. 
Weight management is a distinct treat
-
ment goal, along with glycemic manage-
ment, as it has multifaceted benefits, 
including reduction of A1C, reduction in 
hepatic steatosis, and improvement in 
cardiovascular risk factors ( 90–92). For 
individuals with type 2 diabetes who re-
quire initiation or intensification of glucose- 
lowering therapy to achieve and/or 
maintain individualized glycemic goals 
and who do not have additional consid
-
erations informing choice of therapy 
beyond need for glucose lowering, 
metformin is a commonly used medi
-
cation that historically has been the 
first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes 
(
93,94). Metformin is effective and safe, 
is inexpensive and widely available, and 
reduces risks of microvascular complica
-
tions, cardiovascular events, and death 
(
93,95,96). Metformin is available in an 
immediate-release form for twice-daily 
dosing or as an extended-release form 
that can be given once daily. Compared 
with sulfonylureas, metformin as first-line 
therapy has beneficial effects on A1C, is 
weight neutral, does not cause hypoglyce
-
mia, and reduces cardiovascular mortality 
(97). Metformin is also more effective than 
dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors in 
lowering A1C and weight when used as 
monotherapy (98).
The principal side effects of metformin 
are gastrointestinal intolerance due to 
bloating, abdominal discomfort, and diar
-
rhea; these can be mitigated by gradual 
dose titration and/or using extended- 
S196 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
r elease f ormulation. The drug is cleared 
by kidney filtration, and metf ormin may 
be saf ely used in people with estimat ed 
glomerular filtr ation rat e ≥30 mL/min/ 
1.73 m
2 
( 99 ). Very high circulating levels 
(e.g., as a r esult of overdose or acute kid -
ney injury) have been associated with lac -
tic acidosis ( 100 ). However , the occurrence 
of this complication is very rar e ( 101 ) and 
primarily occurs when the es timated glo -
merular filtration r ate (eGFR) is <30 mL/ 
min/1.73 m
2 
( 102 ). For people with an 
eGFR of 30 – 45 mL/min/1.73 m
2
, there is 
an increas ed risk f or periodic decreases of 
eGFR to ≤30 mL/min/1.73 m
2 
which 
height ens the risk of lactic acidosis. Met -
f ormin use is also associat ed with in -
creas ed risk of vitamin B12 deficiency and 
wor sening of symptoms of neuropath y 
( 103 , 104 ), suggesting periodic tes ting of vi -
t amin B12 levels (see section 3, “ Prev ention 
or Dela y of Diabetes and Associated 
Comorbidities ”).
The compara tive glucose-lowering effi -
cacy of diff er ent pharmacologic agents 
has been ex amined primarily in network 
met a-analyses, as f ew prospective clinical 
trials have compared multiple drug clas -
ses head-to-head. In general, the larges t 
re ductions in A1C levels are achieved by 
tr eatment plans that include insulin, se -
lect GLP -1 RAs (particularly semaglutide), 
and tirz epatide, while DPP -4 inhibitor s re -
sulte d in the smalles t reduct ions in A1C 
( 105 – 107 ). The Glycem ia Re duction Ap -
pr oaches in T ype 2 Diabetes : A Compar a -
tive Eff ectiveness (GRADE) trial compared 
use of insulin glargine U-100, lir aglutide, si -
t agliptin, and glimepiride as add-on tr eat -
ments to metf ormin monotherapy among 
individuals with type 2 diabetes and base -
line A1C 6.8 – 8.5% ( 108 ). It f ound that at 
5 yea rs, all therapi es decr eased A1C levels 
but glargine and lir aglutide wer e modes tly 
mor e eff ective in achieving and maintain -
ing A1C below 7%, while sitagliptin was 
leas t eff ective. Severe h ypoglycemia was 
significantly more common in those pre -
scribed glargine or glimepiride. An obser -
vational stud y that emulat ed man y of 
GRADE’ s design f eatures and included can -
agliflo zin as a comparator arm, but did not 
include insulin glar gine, f ound that lirag lu -
tide was more eff ective at achieving and 
maint aining A1C below 7% than sitagliptin, 
canagliflozi n, or glimepiride, which all had 
comparab le eff ectiveness ( 108 ).
Thus, when choosing a glucose-lowering 
medication to achieve individualiz ed gly -
cemic goals, we recomme nd engaging in 
shared decision-making and considering 
factors such as glucose-lowering efficacy , 
the side eff ect pr ofile, and medication ac -
cessibility and aff or dability ( 108 ). In all cases, 
treatment plans need to be continuously re -
viewed f or efficacy , side eff ects, hypog lyce -
mia, and tr eatment burden ( Table 9.2 ).
When A1C is ≥1.5% above the indi -
vidualiz ed gly cemic goal (see section 6, 
“ Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and 
Hypergly cemic Crises ,” f or appropriat e 
goals), man y individuals will requ ire dual- 
combination therapy or a mor e potent 
glucose-lowering agent to achieve and 
maintain their goal A1C level ( 90 ) ( Fig. 9.4
and Table 9.2 ). Insulin should be consid -
ered as part of any combination medica -
tion plan when hy pergly cemia is sever e, 
especially if cat abolic f eatures (weight loss, 
hypertrigly ceridemia, and k etosis) ar e pre -
sent. It is common prac tice to initiate insu -
lin therapy f or people who present with 
blood glucose levels ≥300 mg /dL (≥16.7 
mmol/L) or A1C >10% (>86 mmol/mol) 
or if the individual has s ymptoms of hype r -
glycemia (i.e., polyuria or polydipsia) or ev -
idence of catab olism (une xpected weight 
loss) ( Fig. 9.5 ). As glucose toxic ity r esolves, 
simplifying the medication plan and/or 
changing to noninsulin agents is possible. 
Additionally , there is evidence that people 
with type 2 diabetes and sever e hyper gly -
cemia can also be eff ectively tr eated with 
a sulf ony lurea, a GLP -1 RA, or a dual GIP 
and GLP -1 RA, though evidence is scar ce 
f or individuals with baseline A1C above 
10 – 12% ( 105 , 109 – 111 ). GLP -1 RAs and tir -
z epatide hav e additional benefits over in -
sulin and sulf onylur eas, specifically lower 
risks f or hypogly cemia (both) and fav or -
able weight (both), card iovascular (GLP -1 
RAs), kidney (GLP -1 RAs), and liver (both) 
end points.
Combination Therapy
Because type 2 diabete s is a pr ogressive 
disease, maintenance of glycemic goals 
often requir es combination therapy . T ra -
ditional recommendations have called f or 
the use of st epwise addition of medica -
tions to metf ormin to maintain A1C goals. 
The advanta ge of this is to pr ovide a clear 
assessment of the positive and negative 
eff ects of new drugs and re duce pote ntial 
side eff ects and exp ense ( 112 ). However , 
some data support initial combination 
therapy f or mor e rapid at tainment of glyce -
mic goals ( 113 , 114 ) and later combination 
therapy f or longer durability of glycemic 
eff ect ( 115 ). Initial combination ther apy 
should be considered in people pr esent -
ing with A1C levels 1.5 – 2.0% above their 
individualiz ed goal or in those at high risk 
f or cardiovascular disease (CVD) or 
with est ablished CVD irrespective of 
A1C levels (GLP -1 RA and SGLT2 inhibi -
tor combination thera py) (see section 
10, “ Cardiovascular Disease and Risk 
Management ”). The incorpor ation of 
high-glycemic-efficacy therap ies or thera -
pies f or cardiovascular and kidney disease 
risk r eduction (e. g., GLP -1 RAs, a dual GIP 
and GLP -1 RA, and SGLT2 inhibitors) ma y 
reduce the need f or agents that increase 
the risks of hypogly cemia and weight gain 
or ar e less well toler ated. Thus, tr eatment 
intens ification r equires purposeful se -
lection of medications in alignment with 
multiple individualiz ed person-cent ered 
treat ment goals simultaneously ( Fig. 9.4 ).
T reatment intens ification, deintensi fi -
cation, or modification, as appropriat e, 
f or people not meeting individualiz ed 
treatment goals should not be delay ed 
(therapeutic inertia) ( 116 ). Results from 
comparati ve eff ectiveness meta-analyses 
suggest that each new class of or al nonin -
sulin agents when added to metf ormin 
generally lower s A1C by appr oximat ely 
0.7 – 1.0% (8 – 11 mmol/mol). Addition of 
GLP -1 RAs or the dual GIP and GLP -1 RA 
to metf ormin usually res ults in 1% to ≥2% 
lowering of A1C ( 105 , 117 , 118 ) ( Fig. 9.4
and Table 9.2 ). Use of GLP -1 RAs (or the 
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA) together with a 
DPP -4 inhibitor is not recommended, as 
there is no added glucose-lowering ben -
efit beyond that of the GLP -1 RA alone 
( 119 – 121 ).
When even great er potency of glucose 
reduction is needed, basal insulin, either 
human NPH or a long-acting insulin ana -
log , should be initiated. However , if the 
individual is not already receiving GLP -1 
RA or dual GIP and GLP -1 RA ther apy , an 
agent fr om these classes should be st art ed 
firs t, as it ma y be sufficient f or achieving 
individualiz ed A1C goals but with lower 
risk of hypo glycemia and with favor able 
weight, cardiovascular , kidney , and liver 
profiles. While most GLP -1 RAs are inject -
able medications, an ora l f ormulation 
of semaglutide is commercially av ailable 
( 122 ). In trials analyzing the addition of 
an injectable GLP -1 RA, dual GIP and 
GLP -1 RA, or insulin in people needing 
further glucose lowering, glycemi c effica -
cies of GLP -1 RAs and the dual GIP and 
GLP -1 RA were similar to or gr eater than 
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S197 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
INITIATION Initiate appropriate starting dose for agent selected (varies within class)
TITRATION Titrate to maintenance dose (varies within class) appropriate, or if insulin is preferred
If on bedtime NPH, consider converting 
to twice-daily NPH plan
Conversion based on individual needs and 
current glycemic management. The following is 
one possible approach:
INITIATION
• 
• 2/3 given in the morning
• 1/3 given at bedtime
TITRATION 
• Titrate based on individualized needs
Considerations for adding basal insulin3
Choice of basal insulin should be based on person-specific considerations, including cost. Refer to 
Table 9.4 for insulin cost information. Consider prescription of glucagon for emergent hypoglycemia. 
If not on CGM, consider adding CGM.
Stepwise doses of prandial insulin 
(i.e., two, then three 
additional injections) 
Proceed to full basal-bolus plan 
(i.e., basal insulin and prandial 
insulin with each meal) 
Consider self-mixed/split insulin plan 
Can adjust NPH and short/rapid-acting insulins separately 
INITIATION
• 
• 2/3 given before breakfast
• 1/3 given before dinner
• Add 4 units of short/rapid-acting insulin to each injection or 10% of 
reduced NPH dose
TITRATION 
• Titrate each component of the plan based on individualized needs
Consider twice-daily premixed insulin plan
INITIATION
• Usually unit per unit at the same total
insulin dose, but may require adjustment to 
individual needs
TITRATION 
• Titrate based on individualized needs
Initiation and titration of basal analog or bedtime NPH insulin4
INITIATION
Start 10 units 
per day or 
kg per day
TITRATION
• Set FPG goal (see section 6, "Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic Crises") 
• Choose evidence-based titration algorithm, e.g., increase 2 units every 3 days to
reach fasting plasma glucose goal without hypoglycemia
• 
Initiation and titration of prandial insulin5,6
Usually one dose with the largest meal or meal with greatest PPG excursion; 
prandial insulin can be dosed individually or mixed with NPH as appropriate
INITIATION 
• 4 units per day or 10% of basal insulin dose
• 
lowering the basal dose by 4 units per day 
or 10% of basal dose
TITRATION
• 
• For hypoglycemia: determine cause; if no clear 
Assess adequacy of insulin dose at every visit
Consider clinical signals to evaluate for overbasalization and need to consider adjunctive 
therapies (e.g., elevated bedtime-to-morning and/or postprandial-to-preprandial 
differential, hypoglycemia [aware or unaware], high glucose variability)
If glycemia is above goal
If glycemia is above goal If glycemia is above goal
• 
consider these classes in combination and with insulin (may use fixed-ratio product, if available 
and appropriate)3
• If glycemia remains above goal:
Use principles in Figure 9.3, including reinforcement of behavioral interventions (weight management 
and physical activity) and provision of DSMES, to meet individualized treatment goals
To avoid 
therapeutic 
inertia, reassess 
and modify 
treatment 
regularly 
1. 
2.
3. 
4. Consider switching from evening NPH to a basal analog if the individual develops hypoglycemia and/or frequently forgets to administer NPH in the evening and would 
be better managed with a morning dose of a long-acting basal Insulin. Consider dosing NPH in the morning for steroid-induced hyperglycemia.
5. Prandial insulin options include injectable rapid- and ultra-rapid-acting analog insulins, injectable short-acting human insulin, or inhaled human insulin.
6. If adding prandial insulin to NPH, consider initiation of a self-mixed or premixed insulin plan to decrease the number of injections required.
If injectable therapy is needed to attain glycemic goals1
Consider GLP-1 RA or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA in most individuals prior to insulin2 If already on GLP-1 RA or dual GIP 
and GLP-1 RA, or if these are not 
0.1–0.2 units/
For hypoglycemia: determine cause; if no clear reason, lower dose by 10–20%
If A1C <8% (<64 mmol/mol), consider
Increase dose by 1–2 units insulin dose or
10–15% twice weekly
reason, lower corresponding dose by 10–20%
Total dose = 80% of current bedtime NPH dose
Total NPH dose = 80% of current NPH dose at the same total
Consider insulin as the first injectable if symptoms of hyperglycemia are present, when A1C or blood glucose levels are very high (i.e., A1C >10% [>86 mmol/mol] or
blood glucose ≥300 mg/dL [≥16.7 mmol/L]), or when a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes is a possibility.
When selecting GLP-1 RAs, consider individual preference, glycemic lowering, weight-lowering effect, and frequency of injection. If CVD is present, consider GLP-1 RA
with proven CVD benefit; oral or injectable GLP-1 RAs are appropriate.
For people on GLP-1 RA and basal insulin combination, consider use of a fixed-ratio combination product (IDegLira or iGlarLixi).
Figure 9.5—Intensifying to injectable therapies in type 2 diabetes. CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; DSMES, diabetes self-management educa-
tion and support; FPG, fasting plasma glucose; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypep-
tide; PPG, postprandial glucose. Adapted from Davies et al. (318). 
S198 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
that of basal insulin ( 123 – 130 ). GLP -1 
RAs and dual GIP and GLP -1 RA in these 
trials also had a lower risk of h ypoglyce -
mia and beneficial eff ects on body weight 
compare d with insulin, albeit with gr eater 
g ast roint estinal side eff ects. Thus, trial re -
sults support high-pote ncy GLP -1 RAs and 
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA as the pr ef erred 
options f or individuals re quiring mor e in -
t ensive glucose management ( Fig. 9.5 ).
In individuals who are inte nsified to in -
sulin therapy , combination thera py with a 
GLP -1 RA or a dual GIP and GLP -1 RA has 
been shown to ha ve great er efficacy and 
dur ability of glycemic treatment eff ects, 
as well as weight and hypogly cemia bene -
fits, than tre atment intensification with 
insulin alone ( 90 , 131 ). However , cost, ac -
cessibility , and tolerability are import ant 
consider ations f or GLP -1 RA and dual GIP 
and GLP -1 RA use.
In all cases, tre atment plans need to be 
continuously revie wed f or efficacy , side 
eff ects (including hypogly cemia), and tr eat -
ment burden ( Table 9.2 ). In some inst an -
ces, the individual will requ ire medication 
r eduction or discontinuation. Common rea -
sons f or this include ineff ectiveness, h ypo -
gly cemia, intolera ble side eff ects, new 
contr aindications, expense, or a change 
in glyc emic goals (e.g., in r esponse to de -
velopment of comorbidities). See below 
f or cost considerati ons of glucose-lowering 
therap ies ( MEDICATION COSTS AND AFFORDABILITY ). 
Section 13, “ Older Adults ,” has a full dis -
cussion of tre atment considerations in 
older adults. T reatment deintensi fication 
may also be needed in the set ting of 
weight loss and/or optimiza tion of lif e -
s tyle behavior s, when f ewer pharmaco -
logic agents are needed to mainta in A1C 
goals. In this case, we recomme nd pr ef er -
ential deescalation of thera pies that are 
mos t lik ely to cause side eff ects, hypogly -
cemia, and/o r tr eatment burden and do 
not ha ve card iovascular , kidney , or meta -
bolic benefits f or continued use.
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for 
P eople With Cardiovascular Disease 
or Risk Factors for Cardiovascular 
Disease
For people with type 2 diabete s and es -
t ablished ASCVD or indicators of high 
ASCVD risk, HF, or CKD, an SGLT2 inhibi -
tor and/or GLP -1 RA with demons trat ed 
cardi ovascular benefit ( Table 9.2 ) is rec -
ommended independent of A1C, with or 
without metf ormin use, and in consider -
ation of person-specific factors ( Fig. 9.4 ). 
GLP -1 RAs or a dual GIP and GLP -1 RA 
with demons tra ted benefits are reco m -
mended f or people with type 2 diabete s, 
obesity , and symptomatic HF with pr eserved 
ejection frac tion ( 132 – 135 ) ( Table 9.2 and 
Fig. 9.4 ). Individuals with these comorbid -
ities alread y achieving their individualiz ed 
glycemic goals with other medications 
may benefit fro m switching to these pre -
f erred medications to reduce risk of ASCVD, 
HF, and/ or CKD in addition to achieving gly -
cemic goals (see section 10, “ Cardiovascular 
Disease and Risk Management ,” and sec -
tion 11, “ Chro nic Kidney Disease and Risk 
Management ”). This is particularly impor -
tant because SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP -1 
RAs ar e associated with lower risk of hypo -
glycemia and individuals with ASCVD, HF, 
and CKD hav e higher h ypoglycemia risk than 
individuals without these conditions ( 136 ).
Individuals at lower risk f or ASCVD 
may stil l benefit from GLP -1 RA ther apy 
to redu ce their risk of futur e cardiovas -
cular events. The GRADE trial, which was 
designed to ex amine the comparat ive ef -
f ectiveness of insulin glargin e U-100, gli -
mepiride, liraglutide, and sita gliptin in 
individuals with relatively short dura tion 
of diabetes (and without est ablished CVD) 
with r espect to achieving and maintaining 
A1C below 7%, f ound that individuals 
treat ed with liraglutide had a lower risk of 
cardiovascular events than individuals r e -
ceiving the other three treatments (haz ar d 
ratio 0.7 [95% CI 0.6 – 0.9]), although no 
significant diff erences wer e f ound between 
individual treatment groups f or major ad -
verse car diovascular events, hospita lization 
f or HF, or cardiovascular death ( 137 ). Indi -
viduals with type 2 diabetes and moderat e 
levels of CVD risk appear to derive car -
diovascular and mortalit y benefits with 
pref eren tial use of GLP -1 RA and SGLT2 
inhibitors compare d with sulf onyl urea 
or DPP -4 inhibitors ( 138 ). Similarly , while 
great er reductions in HF hospitaliz ation 
risk are observed with SGLT2 inhibitor 
therapy in individuals with higher baseline 
HF risk, some benefit is observed acros s 
the full r ange of HF risk ( 139 ).
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for 
People With Chronic Kidney Disease
For individuals with type 2 diabetes and 
CKD, consideratio ns f or selection of glucose- 
lowering medications include their eff ec -
tiveness and saf ety when eGFR is r educed 
as well as the pot ential to aff ect CKD 
progr ession, CVD risk, and hypogly cemia 
( 140 ). Pre f erre d medications f or glucose 
management in individuals with CKD are 
GLP -1 RAs and SGLT2 inhibitors (can be 
initiated if eGFR is above 20 mL/min/ 
1.73 m
2
). GLP -1 RAs are eff ective in lower -
ing glucose levels, r ega rdless of kidney 
function, with a low risk f or hypogly cemia, 
and a r ecent clinical trial suggests that the 
GLP -1 RA semaglutide has a beneficial ef -
f ect on CVD, mortality , and kidney out -
comes among people with CKD, leading 
to the recommendation that semaglutide 
can be used as another fir st -line agent f or 
people with CKD ( 141 , 142 ). Other GLP -1 
RAs (liragl utide and dulaglutide) may also 
have CKD benefits, but no other dedicated 
kidney trials have been published. Similarly , 
no dedicat ed kidney out comes studies f or 
the dual GIP and GLP -1 RA (tirz epatide) have 
been published, although post hoc analyses 
of clinical trials in people with type 2 diabetes 
have shown that tirz epatide slowed the r ate 
of eGFR decline and r educed albuminuria 
( 143 , 144 ). The GLP -1 RAs lixisenatide and 
ex enatide, which re quire the kidneys f or 
elimination, should be avoided in individ -
uals with eGFR ≤30 mL/min/1.73 m
2 
or 
with creati nine cleara nce ≤30 mL/min, 
res pectively ( 145 – 147 ).
Dedicated kidney outcomes trials in 
people with CKD and type 2 diabet es 
have shown that the SGLT2 inhibitors 
empagliflozin, canaglifloz in, and dapagli -
flozin ha ve beneficial eff ects on slowing 
progr ession of CKD and CV outcomes 
in this population ( 148 – 150 ). However , 
their ability to lower glucose levels de -
clines when the eGFR falls below 45 mL/ 
min/1.73 m
2 
( 151 – 153 ). Metf ormin is also 
a therapeutic agent f or those with CKD 
due to its well-documented efficacy and 
saf ety profile f or people with type 2 dia -
betes. However , there is no document ed 
direct kidney benefit. Importantly , met -
f ormin should not be st arted in those 
whose eGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m
2
. For 
those alre ady treat ed with metf ormin, the 
dose of metf ormin should be r educed 
once eGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m
2 
and 
should be s topped once eGFR is <30 
mL/min/1.73 m
2 
( 99 ). A secondary anal -
ysis of the GRADE trial f ound that insulin 
glargine, lira glutide, sitagliptin, and glime -
piride did not preven t the development 
of CKD when added to metf ormin mono -
thera py in individuals without underlying 
CKD ( 154 ).
Individuals with CKD, particularly ad -
vanced CKD and kidney failure, are at high 
risk f or hy poglycemia ( 136 ). If treat ed with 
insulin and/o r sulf on ylureas, treatment needs 
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S199 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
to be closely monitor ed and adjust ed as 
eGFR declines and individuals need to be 
educated about and closely monitored 
f or h ypoglycemia occurrenc e ( 140 ). See 
section 11, “ Chr onic Kidney Disease and 
Risk Management ,” f or more details about 
prevention and tr eatment of CKD in individ -
uals with diabetes.
Glucose-Lowering Therapy for 
People With Metabolic Comorbidities
Many adults with diabete s, either type 2 
diabetes or type 1 diabete s, with obesity 
are at high risk of developing MASLD or 
MASH as well as MASH cirrhosis. Hence, 
the presence of MASLD or MASH should 
be a consideration when choosing glucose- 
lowering therapi es. Accruing randomiz ed 
clinical trial data sugges t that pioglit az one, 
GLP -1 RAs, and a dual GIP and GLP -1 RA 
have favor able outcomes in t erms of de -
creasing hepatic st eatosis and in the resolu -
tion of MASH without wor sening of fibrosis 
in individuals with biopsy -prov en MASH or 
those at higher risk of clinically significant 
liver fibrosis identified with noninvasive 
tes ts ( 155 – 160 ). Combination therapy with 
pioglitaz one plus GLP -1 RA should also be 
considered f or tr eatment of hy pergly cemia 
in adults with type 2 diabetes with biopsy - 
proven MASH or those at higher risk of 
clinically significant liver fibrosis identified 
with noninvasive t ests, as such therapy is 
saf e and eff ective and has been shown to 
reduce hepatic st eatosis ( 161 – 163 ). It is im -
portant to note that these studies are 
based on phase 2 clinical trials and that 
only semaglutide has recently shown bene -
fit in a phase 3 clinical trial with histo logical 
outcomes in MASH, including impr ove -
ments in st eatohepatitis and fibrosis ( 156 ); 
this subsequently led to its appr oval by the 
FDA f or the tr eatment of MASH with mod -
erat e to advanced liver fibrosis, while the 
other therapies await further phase 3 
confirmation of evidence. However , these 
plans are pref err ed as they off er pote ntial 
benefit compared with lack of histological 
benefit (or clinical trial data) fro m other 
glucose-lowering therapies in MASLD. Fur -
ther det ails reg arding liver health in diabete s 
can be f ound in section 4, “ Comprehensive 
Medical Evaluation and Assessment of 
Comorbidities .”
Obesity is pr esent in over 90% of peo -
ple with type 2 diabete s, and in these in -
dividuals weight management is a k ey 
treatment goal, along with glucose lower -
ing. In the setting of obesity , the choice of 
glucose-lowering medications should tak e 
into consider ation their eff ects on weight. 
Insulins, sulf onylu reas, and thiaz olidine -
diones can promot e weight ga in and 
should be used judiciously and at the 
lowest possible dose. Glucose-lowering 
medications that pr omote weight loss 
should be prioritiz ed. Of the curr ently 
av ailable agents, tirz epatide and semaglu -
tide have the highest efficacy in terms of 
glucose lowering as well as weight loss, 
f ollowed by dulaglutide, lir aglutide, and 
ext ended-release ex enatide ( 164 – 168 ). 
Other glucose-lowering medications (met -
f ormin, SGLT2 inhibitors, DPP -4 inhibitor s, 
dopamine agonists, bile acid seques tr ants, 
and α-glucosidase inhibitor s) ar e weight 
neutral or hav e a modest beneficial eff ect 
on weight. These medications can be used 
as add-on therap ies in people with type 2 
diabetes and obesity who requir e addi -
tional glucose lowering or if the more ef -
f ective medications ar e not tolerat ed, are 
contraindic ated, or are unavailable. Meta -
bolic surgery , especially Rou x -en- Y ga stric 
bypass and sleeve gas trectom y , are very 
eff ective interventions to achieve both 
weight and glyc emic goals and have ad -
ditional health benefits beyo nd improv -
ing metabolism ( 169 ). Further details 
reg arding tr eatment of obesity can be 
f ound in section 8, “ Obesity and Weight 
Management f or the Pre vention and 
T reatment of Diabetes .”
Insulin Therapy
Many adults with type 2 diabetes eventu -
ally requir e and benefit from insulin ther -
apy ( Fig. 9.5 ). See INSULIN ADMINISTRATION 
TECHNIQUE , above, f or guidance on how to 
administ er insulin saf ely and eff ectively . 
The progr essive nature of type 2 diabetes 
should be regularly and objectively ex -
plained to individuals with diabetes, and 
clinicians should avoid using insulin as a 
threat or describing it as a sign of per -
sonal failure. The utility and importa nce 
of insulin to achieve and maintain glyce -
mic goals once prog ression of the disease 
overcomes the eff ect of other agents as 
well as f or tempor ary use f or acute situa -
tions (such as hospitaliz ation, acute ill -
ness, or high-dose glucocorticoid therapy) 
should be emphasiz ed. Educating and in -
volving people with diabetes in insulin 
management is beneficial. For ex ample, 
instruction of individuals with type 2 dia -
betes initiating insulin on self -titrat ion of 
insulin doses based on glucose monitoring 
improv es glycemic management ( 170 ). 
Compr ehensive education reg arding 
glucose monitoring, nutrition, ph ysical 
activity , contingency planning (f or ill -
ness, fasting, or medication unav ailabil -
ity), and the pr evention and appropriat e 
treatment of hypo glycemia are critically 
important f or all individuals using insulin. 
Assessment and education tailor ed to im -
prove health liter acy and numer acy may 
be necessary f or individuals to eff ectively use 
various insulin dosing s trat egies and tools 
( 57 , 58 ). See section 5, “ Facilitat ing Positive 
Health Behavior s and Well-being to 
Improve Health Outc omes ,” f or guidance 
on diabetes self -management education.
Basal Insulin
Basal insulin alone is the most convenient 
initial insulin tr eatment and can be added 
to noninsulin glucose-lowering medica -
tions. For individuals with type 2 diabetes , 
st arting doses can be es timated based on 
body weight (0.1 – 0.2 units/kg /da y) and 
the degr ee of h ypergly cemia, with indi -
vidualiz ed titration over time as needed 
to achieve and mainta in glycemic goals. 
The principal action of basal insulin is to 
res tra in hepatic glucose production and 
limit hyper glycemia overnight and be -
tween meals ( 171 , 172 ). Att ainment of 
fas ting glucose goals can be achieved 
with human NPH insulin or a long-acting 
insulin analog. In clinical trials, long-acting 
basal analogs (U-100 glargine ) ha ve been 
demons trat ed to reduce the risk of level 2 
hypogly cemia and nocturnal hypogly ce -
mia compare d with NPH insulin ( 173 ). 
Longer -acting basal analogs (U-300 glar -
gine or degludec) conve y a lower noctur -
nal h ypoglycemia risk than U-100 glargine 
( 174 , 175 ). It is importa nt to unders tand 
how to conve rt individuals from one basal 
insulin to another , as swit ching insulins 
may be re quired due to the a vailability of 
more clinically appropriat e insulin alter -
natives, removal of a product fr om the 
mark et (i.e., insulin detemir ), or changes 
to insura nce coverage. Oft en doses can 
be conver ted unit f or unit and subse -
quently adjust ed based on glucose moni -
toring; however , an initial dose reducti on 
of 10 – 20% can be used f or individuals in 
very tight management or at high risk f or 
h ypoglycemia and is typically needed when 
switc hing fro m human NPH insulin or 
U-300 glargin e to another insulin ( 176 ). 
Clinicians should also be aware of the 
pot ential f or overbasalization with insulin 
therapy (i.e., use of higher than clinically 
necessary and appr opriate dose of basal 
insulin, typically masking insufficient 
S200 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
mealtime insulin). Clinical signals that 
should prompt evaluation f or overbasali -
z ation include high bedtime-to-morning 
or postpr andial-to-prepr andial glucose dif -
f erential (e.g., bedtime-to-morning glucose 
diff er ential ≥50 mg /dL [≥2.8 mmol/L]), hy -
pogly cemia (aware or unaware ), and high 
glucose variability . Evidence of over -basali -
z ation should pr ompt r eevaluation of the 
glucose-lowering treatment plan to bett er 
addr ess postpr andial hyper glycemia ( 177 ).
Combination Injectable Therapy and  
Prandial Insulin
If basal insulin has been titr ated to an ac -
cepta ble fas ting blood glucose level and 
A1C rema ins above goal, if there is evi -
dence of significant pos tprandial hyper -
gly cemia, or if signs of overbasaliza tion 
are pre sent, advancement to combination 
inject able thera py is necessary ( Fig. 9.5 ). 
This approach can use a GLP -1 RA or 
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA added to basal in -
sulin or multiple doses of prandial insulin 
( 131 , 178 ). If an individual is not already 
being tre ated with a GLP -1 RA or dual GIP 
and GLP -1 RA, a GLP -1 RA (either as an in -
dividual pr oduct or in a fix ed-ra tio combi -
nation with a basal insulin product) or 
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA should be consid -
er ed prior to st arting pran dial insulin to ad -
dres s prand ial management and to lower 
the risks of hy poglycemia and weight g ain 
associat ed with insulin therap y ( 131 , 178 ).
Further intens ification of insulin ther -
apy entails adding doses of pr andial insu -
lin to basal insulin. Start ing with a single 
pr andial dose with the large st meal of the 
da y is simple and eff ective, and it can be 
advanced to a plan with multiple pr andial 
doses if necessary ( 179 ). We suggest s tart -
ing with a prand ial insulin dose of 4 units 
or 10% of the amount of basal insulin at 
the larges t meal or the meal with the 
great es t pos tprandial ex cur sion. The pran -
dial insulin plan can then be intensi fied 
based on individual needs ( Fig. 9.5 ). Alter -
natively , f or an individual treat ed with 
basal insulin in whom additional prandial 
cover age is desired but adminis tering insu -
lin prior to one or more meals is not f easi -
ble, the medication plan can be convert ed 
to two doses of a premix ed insulin. Each 
appr oach has advantag es and disadvan -
tag es. For ex ample, basal-prandial plans 
off er great er flexi bility f or individuals who 
eat on irregular schedules, hav e variable 
meal content, or otherwise benefit fr om 
great er individualizat ion and flexibility in 
insulin adminis tration. On the other hand, 
two doses of premix ed insulin is a simple, 
convenient means of spreading insulin 
across the day . More over , human insulins, 
separat ely , self -mix ed, or as premix ed 
NPH/regular (f or ex ample, 70/30) f ormu -
lations, ar e often less cost ly alt ernatives 
to insulin analogs.
Individuals with type 2 diabetes are 
generally more insulin r esist ant than those 
with type 1 diabetes, r equire higher daily 
doses (∼1 unit/kg), and ha ve lower r ates 
of hypogly cemia ( 180 ). Meta -analyses of 
trials comparing r apid-acting insulin ana -
logs with human r egular insulin in type 2 
diabetes have not r eported meaningful 
diff erences in A1C or hypogly cemia ( 181 ). 
Titration of pr andial insulin can be based 
on home self -monitored blood glucose or 
CGM. When significant additions to the 
prandial insulin dose are made, particu -
larly with the evening meal, consideration 
should be given to decrea sing basal insulin 
to r educe risk of hypogly cemia. When ini -
tiating intensification of insulin ther apy , 
metf ormin, SGLT2 inhibitors, and GLP -1 
RAs (or a dual GIP and GLP -1 RA) should 
be maintained, unless adverse eff ects (in -
cluding significant treat ment bur den) or 
contraindications are presen t. Use of sul -
f on ylureas, meglitinides, and DPP -4 inhibi -
tors should be limited or discontinued, as 
these medications do not ha ve additional 
beneficial eff ects on car diovascular , kid -
ney , weight, or liver outcomes, and sulf o -
nylur eas and meglitinides incr ease risk of 
hypogly cemia and weight g ain. Adjunctive 
use of pioglitaz one may help to impr ove 
glycemia and reduce the amount of insulin 
needed, although pot ential side eff ects 
should be consider ed and may limit its use.
Once a basal-bolus insulin plan is initi -
ated, dose titration is important , with ad -
justments made in both pr andial and 
basal insulins based on blood glucose lev -
els and an unders ta nding of the pharma -
codynamic profile of each f ormulation 
(also known as patt ern control or patt ern 
management). In some people with type 2 
diabetes with significant clinical comple x -
ity , multimorbidity , and/or treatment bur -
den, it ma y become necessary to simplify 
or deintensi fy complex insulin plans to de -
crease risk of hypogly cemia and improve 
quality of lif e (see section 13, “ Older 
Adults ”).
Concentrated Insulins
Concentrat ed pr eparations may be more 
convenient (f ewer injections to achieve 
goal dose) and comf ort able (less volume 
to inject the desired dose and/ or less 
injection eff ort) f or individuals and may 
improv e tr eatment plan eng agement in 
those with insulin resis tance who requir e 
large doses of insulin. Several concen -
trat ed insulin prepar ations are curre ntly 
available . U-500 regular insulin is, by defi -
nition, five times more concentr ated than 
U-100 regular insulin. U-500 regular insulin 
has dis tinct pharmacokinetics with similar 
onset but a delay ed, blunt ed, and pro -
longed peak eff ect and longer duration of 
action compared with U-100 r egular insu -
lin; thus, it has charact eristi cs more lik e a 
premix ed intermediat e-acting (NPH) and 
regular insulin produ ct and can be used 
as two or three daily injections ( 182 , 183 ). 
U-300 glargine and U-200 degludec are 
three and two times, respectively , as con -
centrat ed as their U-100 f ormulations and 
allow higher doses of basal insulin admin -
istr ation per volume used. U-300 glar gine 
has a longer duration of action than U-100 
glar gine but modestly lower efficacy per 
unit administ ered ( 184 – 186 ). The U-200 
f ormulations of insulin degludec, insulin lis -
pro , and insulin lispro-aabc have pharma -
cokinetics similar to those of their U-100 
counte rparts ( 187 – 189 ). While U-500 r eg -
ular insulin is available in both prefilled 
pens and vials, other concentrat ed insulins 
are av ailable only in prefil led pens to 
minimiz e the risk of dosing error s. If 
U-500 regular insulin vials are presc ribed, 
the presc ription should be accompanied 
by a specific presc ription f or U-500 syrin -
ges to minimiz e the risk of dosing error s.
Alternative Insulin Routes
Insulin is primarily administ ered via sub -
cutaneou s injection or infusion. Adminis -
tration devices pr ovide some additional 
variation in the subcutaneous delivery be -
yond vial and syringe versus insulin pen. 
Those devices include continuous insulin 
pumps (pr ogrammable or automated basal 
and bolus setti ngs and fix ed basal and bo -
lus settings) and bolus-only insulin pat ch 
pump. In addition, pr andial or corr ection 
insulin doses may be administ ered using 
inhaled human insulin. Inhaled insulin is 
av ailable as monomers of regular human 
insulin; s tudies in individuals with type 1 
diabetes suggest that inhaled insulin has 
pharmacokinetics fast er than those of RAA 
( 190 ). Studies comparing inhaled insulin 
with injectable insulin hav e demons trat ed 
its fast er onset and shorte r dur ation com -
pared with the RAA insulin lispro as well as 
clinically meaningful A1C reductions and 
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S201 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
weight reductions compared with the RAA 
insulin aspart over 24 weeks (190–192). 
Use of inhaled insulin may result in a de-
cline in lung function (reduced forced expi-
ratory volume in 1 s [FEV1]). Inhaled insulin 
is contraindicated in individuals with chronic 
lung disease, such as asthma and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, and is not 
recommended in individuals who smoke or 
who recently stopped smoking. All individu
-
als require spirometry (FEV1) testing to iden-
tify potential lung disease prior to and after 
starting inhaled insulin therapy.
ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS 
FOR ALL INDIVIDUALS WITH 
DIABETES
Several key aspects of insulin manage -
ment that are relevant to all people 
with diabetes requiring insulin therapy, 
including available formulations, insulin 
plans and delivery systems, administration 
technique, and overbasalization, were dis
-
cussed earlier in this section. Additional 
essential components for the glucose- 
lowering management plan that are rele
-
vant to people with all types of diabetes 
include encouraging healthy behaviors and 
diabetes self-management education and 
support (see section 5, “
Facilitating Positive 
Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve 
Health Outcomes”), 
considering social 
determinants of health (see section 1, 
“Improving Care and Promoting Health 
in Populations
”), 
avoiding and preventing 
therapeutic inertia, and prescribing gluca-
gon and affordable diabetes treatments.
Recommendations
9.24 Include healthy behaviors, diabe-
tes self-management education and 
support, avoidance of therapeutic iner-
tia, and social determinants of health 
as essential components of the glucose- 
lowering management of diabetes. A
9.25 Use of continuous glucose moni-
toring (CGM) is recommended at dia-
betes onset and anytime thereafter 
for adults with diabetes who are on 
insulin therapy, A on noninsulin ther
-
apies that can cause hypoglycemia, B 
and on any diabetes treatment where 
CGM aids in management. B The 
choice of CGM device and method for 
use should be made based on the in
-
dividual’s circumstances, preferences, 
and needs.
9.26 Monitor for signs of overbas -
alization during insulin therapy, such 
as significant bedtime-to-morning or 
postprandial-to-preprandial glucose dif
-
ferential, occurrences of hypoglycemia 
(aware or unaware), and high glycemic 
variability. When overbasalization is 
suspected, a thorough reevaluation 
should occur promptly to further tai
-
lor therapy to the individual’s needs. E
9.27 Automated insulin delivery sys-
tems should be offered to all adults 
with type 1 and 2 diabetes on insulin 
depending on the person’s or care
-
giver’s needs and preferences. A
9.28 Glucagon should be prescribed 
for all individuals taking insulin or 
at high risk for hypoglycemia. A Fam
-
ily, caregivers, school personnel, and 
others providing support to these 
individuals should know its location 
and be educated on how to admin
-
ister it. Glucagon preparations that 
do not require reconstitution are 
preferred. B
9.29 Routinely assess all people with 
diabetes for financial obstacles that 
could impede their diabetes manage
-
ment. Clinicians, members of the dia-
betes care team, and social services 
professionals should work collabora
-
tively, as appropriate and feasible, to 
support these individuals by implement
-
ing strategies to reduce costs, thereby 
improving their access to evidence- 
based care. E
9.30 In adults with diabetes and 
cost-related barriers, consider use 
of lower-cost medications for gly
-
cemic management (i.e., metformin, 
sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, and 
human insulin) within the context of 
their risks for hypoglycemia, weight 
gain, cardiovascular and kidney events, 
and other adverse effects. E
Diabetes Technology and Glycemic 
Management
The use of continuous glucose monitoring 
(CGM) in adults with diabetes improves 
glycemic outcomes (e.g., A1C, time in 
range) and reduces episodes of hypogly
-
cemia in adults with diabetes who are 
on insulin therapy or other noninsulin 
therapies that can induce hypoglycemia 
(
193–209). In addition, the use of AID 
systems should be offered to adults 
with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who are 
on insulin therapy to improve glycemic 
management and glycemic outcomes 
(26,28–32,35–37,210–215
). The decision 
of which CGM and/or AID system to use 
should be based on the preference of 
the individual with diabetes and their 
caregivers, availability of resources to pro-
vide the needed training and education, 
and available support. As the diabetes 
technology landscape is rapidly evolving 
and individuals require a tailored ap
-
proach, health care teams may encounter 
challenges with determining the best 
technology for people with diabetes. 
An ADA resource, which can be found 
at 
diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/ 
treatment-care/diabetes-technology- 
guide
, can provide helpful information 
for health care professionals and indi-
viduals with diabetes in making decisions 
regarding technology. For more informa-
tion on diabetes technology, see section 7, 
“
Diabetes Technology.”
Glucagon
Due to the risk of hypoglycemia with insu-
lin treatment, all individuals treated with 
insulin or who are at high risk for hypogly
-
cemia should be prescribed glucagon. Indi-
viduals with diabetes who are prescribed 
glucagon and those in close contact with 
them should be educated on the use and 
administration of the individual’s pre
-
scribed glucagon product. The glucagon 
product available to individuals may differ 
based on coverage and cost; however, 
products that do not require reconstitu
-
tion are preferred for ease of administra-
tion (216,217). Clinicians should routinely 
review the individual’s access to glucagon, 
as appropriate glucagon prescribing is 
low (218–220). See section 6, “Glycemic 
Goals, Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic 
Crises,” f
or additional information on hy-
poglycemia and glucagon in individuals 
with diabetes.
Medication Costs and Affordability
Costs for noninsulin and insulin diabetes 
medications have increased dramatically 
over the past two decades, and an in -
creasing proportion of cost is now passed 
on to people with diabetes and their fam
-
ilies (221). Table 9.3 provides cost infor-
mation for currently approved noninsulin 
therapies, while 
Table 9.4provides these 
data for insulin. Of note, prices listed are 
average wholesale prices (AWP) (222) 
and National Average Drug Acquisition 
Costs (NADAC) (223
); these estimates al-
low for a comparison of drug prices but 
do not represent the actual costs to 
S202 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
people with diabetes because they do 
not account for various discounts, rebates, 
and other price adjustments often involved 
in prescription sales that affect the actual 
cost incurred by the individual. Medication 
costs can be a major source of stress for 
people with diabetes and contribute to 
worse medication-taking behavior (224); 
cost-reducing strategies may improve 
medication-taking behavior in some cases 
(225).
Table 9.3—Median monthly (30-day) AWP and NADAC of maximum approved daily dose of noninsulin glucose-lowering 
agents in the U.S.
Class Compound
Dosage strength/ 
product (if applicable)
Maximum approved  
daily dose†
Median AWP  
(min, max)*
Median NADAC  
(min, max)*
Biguanides • Metformin 500 mg (IR) 2,000 mg $85 ($3, $216) $2
500 mg (ER) 2,000 mg $89 ($5, $6,719) $3
850 mg (IR) 2,550 mg $108 ($3, $189) $2
1,000 mg (IR) 2,000 mg $87 ($2, $144) $1
1,000 mg (ER) 2,000 mg $1,884 ($242, $7,214) $26 ($24, $28)
500 mg (Sol) 2,000 mg $810 ($810, $1,478) $417
Sulfonylureas (2nd generation) • Glimepiride 4 mg 8 mg $73 ($71, $198) $2
• Glipizide 10 mg (IR) 40 mg $72 ($67, $91) $6
10 mg (XL/ER) 20 mg $48 $9
• Glyburide 6 mg (micronized) 12 mg $54 ($48, $71) $13
5 mg 20 mg $88 ($63, $432) $7
Thiazolidinedione • Pioglitazone 45 mg 45 mg $348 ($7, $349) $4
α-Glucosidase inhibitors  • Acarbose 100 mg 300 mg $106 ($104, $378) $22
• Miglitol 100 mg 300 mg $294 ($241, $346) $183
Meglitinides • Nateglinide 120 mg 360 mg $104 $16
• Repaglinide 2 mg 16 mg $878 ($799, $1,728) $28
DPP-4 inhibitors • Alogliptin 25 mg 25 mg $234 $143
• Linagliptin 5 mg 5 mg $630 $504
• Saxagliptin 5 mg 5 mg $524 ($523, $524) $179
• Sitagliptin 100 mg 100 mg $341 $303
25 mg/mL 100 mg $354 NA
SGLT2 inhibitors • Bexagliflozin 20 mg 20 mg $47 NA
• Canagliflozin 300 mg 300 mg $718 $575
• Dapagliflozin 10 mg 10 mg $664 $345
• Empagliflozin 25 mg 25 mg $629 $604
• Ertugliflozin 15 mg 15 mg $428 $343
GLP-1 RAs • Dulaglutide 4.5 mg pen 4.5 mg‡ $1,185 $953
• Liraglutide 18 mg/3 mL pen 1.8 mg $929 ($845, $929) $577
• Semaglutide 2 mg pen 2 mg‡ $1,197 $966
14 mg (tablet) 14 mg $1,197 $965
Dual GIP and GLP-1 RA • Tirzepatide 15 mg pen 15 mg‡ $1,296 $1,041
Bile acid sequestrant • Colesevelam 625 mg tabs 3.75 g $692 ($674, $712) $56
3.75 g suspension 3.75 g $674 ($673, $675) $93
Dopamine-2 agonist • Bromocriptine 0.8 mg 4.8 mg $1,188 $957
AWP, average wholesale price; DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; ER and XL, extended release; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide; 
GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; IR, immediate release; max, maximum; min, minimum; NA, data not available; NADAC, Na -
tional Average Drug Acquisition Cost; SGLT2, sodium –glucose cotransporter 2; Sol, solution. AWP and NADAC prices as of 15 July 2025.
*Calculated for 30-day supply (AWP [222] or NADAC [223] unit price × number of doses required to provide maximum approved daily dose 
× 30 days); median AWP or NADAC listed alone when only one product and/or price. †Used to calculate median AWP and NADAC (min, 
max); generic prices used, if available commercially. ‡Administered once weekly.
Caps on out-of-pocket costs for insulin 
have been implemented for individuals 
with Medicare insurance (to $35 
per 
insulin prescription per month) and indi-
viduals with state-regulated commercial 
insurance plans who live in 26 states and 
the District of Columbia that implemented 
such legislation (to either $35 
per insulin 
prescription per month or $100 per total 
monthly insulin payment) (226–228). Ad-
ditionally, insulin manufacturers have in-
troduced cost reductions and copayment 
assistance programs; however, these do 
not cover all insulins, and the copayment 
assistance programs have variable eligibil
-
ity requirements and reduce out-of-pocket 
payments to variable degrees (
229) (see 
section 1, “Improving Care and Promoting 
Health in Populations”). 
Individuals with 
high-deductible health plans and those 
without insurance coverage can incur very 
high out-of-pocket expenses for glucose- 
lowering therapies. Moreover, no such 
caps exist for diabetes medical equipment 
(i.e., equipment for glucose monitoring 
and insulin administration) or for nonin
-
sulin medications. It is therefore essen -
tial to screen all people with diabetes 
for financial concerns and cost-related 
barriers to care and to engage mem
-
bers of the health care team, including 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S203 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
pharmacists, certified diabetes care and 
education specialists, social workers, com-
munity health workers, community para-
medics, and others, to identify cost-saving 
opportunities for medications, diabetes 
durable medical equipment, and glucagon 
(230).
Recommendations
9.31a Use of compounded products 
that are not approved by the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is 
not recommended due to uncertainty 
about their content and resulting con
-
cerns about safety, quality, and effec-
tiveness. C
9.31b If a glucose-lowering medication 
is unavailable (e.g., in shortage), it is 
Table 9.4—Median cost of insulin products in the U.S. calculated as AWP and NADAC per 1,000 units of specified dosage 
form/product
Insulins Compounds Dosage form/product
Median AWP  
(min, max)*
Median NADAC  
(min, max)*
Rapid-acting • Aspart     U-100 vial $87† $70†
U-100 cartridge $107† $86†
U-100 prefilled pen $112† $90†
• Aspart biosimilars# U-100 vial $83 NA
U-100 prefilled pen $107 NA
• Aspart (“faster acting 
product”) 
U-100 vial $347 $278
U-100 cartridge $430 $344
U-100 prefilled pen $447 $358
• Glulisine U-100 vial $102 $82
U-100 prefilled pen $132 $105
• Inhaled insulin Inhalation cartridges $1,578 $1,265
• Lispro U-100 vial $30† $24†
U-100 cartridge $123 $98
U-100 prefilled pen $127† $102†
U-200 prefilled pen $424 $339
• Lispro-aabc U-100 vial $330 $263
U-100 prefilled pen $424 $339
U-200 prefilled pen $424 $339
• Lispro follow-on product U-100 vial $118 $110
U-100 prefilled pen $151 $121
Short-acting • Human regular U-100 vial $56 ($54, $58)‡ $44 ($43, $46)‡
U-100 prefilled pen $73 $58
Intermediate-acting • Human NPH U-100 vial $58 ($54, $58)‡ $45 ($43, $46)‡
U-100 prefilled pen $93 ($73, $113) $74 ($58, $91)
Concentrated human regular  
insulin 
• U-500 human regular insulin U-500 vial $178 $143
U-500 prefilled pen $230 $183
Long-acting • Degludec U-100 vial $142† $114†
U-100 prefilled pen $142† $114†
U-200 prefilled pen $142† $114†
• Glargine U-100 vial  
U-100 prefilled pen
$77  
$77
$62  
$62
U-300 prefilled pen $152 $122†
• Glargine biosimilar/follow-on  
products
U-100 vial $76† $61†
U-100 prefilled pen $74 ($74,† $261) $59 ($59,† $209)
Premixed insulin products • Aspart 70/30 U-100 vial $87†‡ $69†‡
U-100 prefilled pen $112†‡ $90†‡
• Lispro 50/50 U-100 vial
$102 NA
U-100 prefilled pen $127 $102
• Lispro 75/25 U-100 vial $102 $82
U-100 prefilled pen $127† $102†
• NPH/regular 70/30 U-100 vial $56 ($54, $58) $45 ($43, $46)
U-100 prefilled pen $93 ($73, $113)‡ $74 ($58, $90)‡
Premixed insulin/GLP-1  
RA products
• Degludec/liraglutide 100/3.6 mg prefilled pen $1,073 $859
• Glargine/lixisenatide 100/33 mg prefilled pen $713 $571
AWP, average wholesale price; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; NA, data not available; NADAC, National Average Drug Ac -
quisition Cost. AWP ( 222) and NADAC (223) prices as of 15 July 2025. *AWP or NADAC calculated as in Table 9.3. †Unbranded product 
prices 
used when available. ‡AWP and NADAC data presented do not include human insulins (approximately $25/vial or $43/box of 5 pens) or select 
analog insulins (approximately $73/vial or $86/box of 5 pens) available at Walmart; median listed alone when only one product and/or price.
#Pricing for aspart-xjhz not available on 15 July 2025.
SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES AND 
POPULATIONS
S204 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment                                                  Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
Therapeutic Strategies With 
Medication Unavailability
Health care professionals and people with 
diabetes struggle when medication sup-
plies are insufficient to meet the demand. 
Examples of such circumstances include 
recalls involving a number of metformin 
products and the marked increase in de
-
mand for agents from the GLP-1 RA and 
dual GIP and GLP-1 RA classes. The latter 
circumstance led to such a low level of 
availability that products were determined 
by the FDA to be in shortage (
231). To as-
sist with supply of medications during the 
time they are in shortage (as signaled by 
their inclusion on the FDA Drug Shortages 
Database), compounding pharmacies and 
outsourcing compounding facilities are al
-
lowed to make copies, or products that 
are essentially duplicates of the marketed 
FDA-approved product (
232). A significant 
number of concerning reports regarding 
safety and efficacy of compounded incre
-
tin products have emerged, including using 
salt forms of the FDA-approved product’s 
active ingredient that are not proven safe 
or effective for use in humans, incorpora
-
tion of additional ingredients not clinically 
tested when mixed with incretin products 
(e.g., vitamin B12 and vitamin B6), prod-
ucts provided in nonstandard concentra-
tions and doses and/or multidose vials 
and prefilled syringes not accompanied by 
education or labeling to mitigate adminis
-
tration errors, and the emergence of coun-
terfeit products that pose significant risk to 
individuals taking these products (233–236). 
Due to safety, quality, and effectiveness 
concerns, use of non-FDA-approved com
-
pounded products is not recommended 
(237). Instead, consider switching to a 
different FDA-approved medication as 
clinically appropriate (238
). Once the de-
sired FDA-approved product becomes 
available, individuals should be reas
-
sessed to determine the appropriate -
ness of resuming the product based on 
their current care needs, preferences, 
and priorities.
recommended to switch to a different 
FDA-approved medication with similar 
efficacy, as clinically appropriate. E
9.31c Upon resolution of the unavail-
ability (e.g., shortage), reassess the ap-
propriateness of resuming the original 
FDA-approved medication. E
9.32a Individuals of childbearing poten-
tial with diabetes should be counseled 
on contraception options A and the im
-
pact of some glucose-lowering medica-
tions on contraception efficacy. C
9.32b A person-centered shared deci-
sion-making approach to preconception 
planning is essential for all individuals 
of childbearing potential with diabetes. 
A Preconception planning should ad
-
dress attainment of glycemic goals, A 
the time frame for discontinuing nonin-
sulin glucose-lowering medications, E 
and optimal glycemic management in 
preparation for pregnancy. A
9.33 Individuals who develop hyper-
glycemia during treatment with im -
munotherapy (including anti-PD-1 or 
anti-PD-L1 therapy, e.g., nivolumab, 
pembrolizumab, or avelumab) should 
be assessed for the immediate need 
for initiation of insulin therapy due to 
the potential risk of diabetic ketoacido
-
sis while additional testing is completed 
to determine if the hyperglycemia is 
related to immunotherapy-associated 
diabetes. Close monitoring, education, 
and dose adjustment are needed if in
-
sulin is started. C
9.34 Consider metformin as the first- 
line treatment of hyperglycemia due 
to mTOR inhibitors. E
9.35a Consider metformin as the first- 
line treatment of hyperglycemia due 
to phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) in
-
hibitors that affect the α isoform (e.g., 
alpelisib and inavolisib). E
9.35b Use of insulin should be re -
served for severe hyperglycemia and 
hyperglycemic crises due to its poten
-
tial impact on the efficacy of PI3K in-
hibitors. E
9.36 Adjust or initiate additional glucose- 
lowering therapies to maintain indi -
vidualized glycemic goals based on 
the specific glucocorticoid treatment 
plan, with frequent reassessment of 
glucose levels and glucocorticoid treat
-
ment plans. C
9.37 In adults with posttransplantation 
diabetes mellitus (PTDM) or preexisting 
type 2 diabetes, insulin is preferred for 
the management of hyperglycemia in 
the postoperative setting. A A DPP-4 
inhibitor can be considered for mild 
hyperglycemia. A
9.38a In adults with PTDM or preexist-
ing type 2 diabetes, noninsulin pharma-
cotherapy can be used for long-term 
glycemic management, C and medi-
cation selection may differ depending 
on the transplanted organ(s). E
9.38b In adults with PTDM or preex -
isting type 2 diabetes, a GLP-1 RA 
can be considered for long-term gly
-
cemic management due to additional 
cardiometabolic benefits (e.g., car
-
diovascular, kidney, weight, and liver 
benefits). C
9.38c If long-term individualized gly-
cemic goals cannot be achieved or 
maintained with noninsulin pharma-
cotherapy in adults with PTDM or 
preexisting type 2 diabetes, con -
sider adding insulin. C
9.39 Educate individuals with diabe-
tes who are at risk for developing dia-
betic ketoacidosis and who are treated 
with SGLT inhibition on the risks and 
signs of ketoacidosis and methods of 
risk mitigation management, provide 
them with appropriate tools for 
ketone measurement (i.e., serum 
β-hy
droxybutyrate), and discourage 
a ketogenic eating pattern. E
Care Considerations for Individuals 
of Childbearing Potential
The impact of glycemia during pregnancy is 
well understood; however, evidence for 
the safe use of noninsulin glucose-lowering 
medications is limited (see section 15, 
“Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy”). 
Studies 
on the efficacy and safety of 
glucose-lowering medications exclude indi-
viduals who are pregnant and require indi-
viduals of childbearing potential to use one 
or two forms of contraception. It is recom-
mended that individuals of childbearing 
potential use a form of contraception 
when also taking glucose-lowering medi
-
cations with unknown risks, limited evi -
dence on safety, or known risks during 
pregnancy, regardless of the individual’s 
intention to become pregnant, as many 
pregnancies are unplanned. The options 
for contraception should be discussed 
with all individuals of childbearing poten
-
tial with diabetes and should include in-
formation regarding the potential impact 
of glucose-lowering medications on the 
effectiveness of contraception. Medica
-
tions that affect gastrointestinal emptying 
time (e.g., GLP-1 RAs or dual GIP and GLP-1 
RA) may affect the absorption of orally ad
-
ministered medications, including oral con-
traception. The impact on gastric emptying 
with GLP-1 RAs and the dual GIP and GLP-1 
RA is highest at initiation and with dosage 
increases and then diminishes with contin
-
ued administration (239). Tirzepatide, the 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment S205 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA, was shown to af -
f ect the levels of or al contrac eption during 
the time of its highest impact on gas tric 
emptying; the GLP -1 RAs may aff ect the 
levels of oral contraception as well but to a 
lesser ext ent than tirz epatide ( 240 , 241 ). 
Thus, individuals st arting or incre asing doses 
of tirz epatide who also tak e ora l contra -
ception should use a second f orm of con -
traception until the maintenance dose of 
tirz epatide is achieved and used f or at 
least 4 weeks ( 242 ).
Preconception counseling should be 
part of the routine care of individuals 
with diabetes who ha ve childbearing 
potential. Counseling should include the 
known benefits and risks of glucose- 
lowering medications as well as other 
medications (e. g., lipid-lowering and anti -
hypert ensive therapies) during pregnancy 
and recommendations f or when changes 
in medications should occur prior to 
pregnancy . Individuals planning pregnancy 
should be counseled that a period of sev -
eral months is usually needed and adjust -
ment of ther apy approv ed f or use in 
pregnancy to achieve preconception gly -
cemic goals prior to pregnancy (see sec -
tion 15, “ Management of Diabete s in 
Pregnancy ,” f or more inf ormation on 
preconception counseling and glucose- 
lowering tre atment during pregna ncy).
Therapeutic Strategies for 
Individuals Receiving Cancer 
Treatment
Hypergly cemia due to chemotherap y may 
either be tr ansient (improving upon treat -
ment cessation) or repr esent permanent 
diabetes. Immune checkpoint inhibitors 
(ICIs) impair r egulatory components of the 
immune s yst em, allowing f or immuno -
genic response ag ainst cancer cells, which 
can r esult in autoimmune toxicities , includ -
ing an autoimmune f orm of diabetes that 
results in β-cell des truction (incidence ap -
pro ximatel y ≤1%) ( 243 – 246 ). This f orm of 
diabetes is most common after exposur e 
to ICIs that tar get pro grammed cell death 
prot ein 1 (PD-1) (i.e., nivolumab and pem -
brolizumab) and those that tar get pro -
grammed cell death prot ein liga nd 1 (PD-L1) 
(i.e., durvalumab and a velumab). ICIs that 
tar get cytotoxic T -lymphocyte – associat ed 
prot ein 4 (CTLA-4) (i.e., ipilimumab) ha ve 
also been implicated in this pr ocess, but 
much less commonly ( 247 ).
Hypergly cemia as a result of ICIs can 
occur at an y time afte r the initiation of 
therapy—as quickly as 1 week after the 
firs t dose to up to 12 months after . Insulin 
therapy is the corners tone of manage -
ment, as individuals typically pr esent with 
rapid- onset, severe h ypergly cemia or DKA 
( 248 ). Early initiation of therapy can pr e -
vent these dr astic pr esentations, and the 
initiation of basal insulin should be con -
sidered in individuals with blood glucose 
>250 mg /dL while further evaluation tak es 
place. Prandi al insulin is oft en requir ed as 
well, if insulinopenia is confirmed. ICI treat -
ment should not be discontinued in the 
event of severe h ypergly cemia, as the 
β-cell des truction associat ed with this 
process is irre versible . Lif elong insulin 
therapy is gener ally requir ed ( 249 ).
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) 
inhibitors are small molecules that inhibit 
intracellular signaling , interf ering with 
cancer cell pr olif eration and survival. Four 
isof orms ha ve been identified as ther a -
peutic ta rgets, with both pan-PI3K in -
hibitors and isof orm-specific inhibitors 
in clinical use. The α isof orm of this en -
zyme (PI3Kα) is also invo lved in insulin 
signaling , and the inhibition of this path -
way by either pan-PI3K inhibitor s (i.e., co -
panlisib and duvelisib) or specific PI3Kα 
inhibitors (i.e., alpelisib and inav olisib) 
can lead to hyper gly cemia ( 250 ). Hyper -
glycemia typically occur s within the firs t 2 
weeks of therapy , with an incidence of 
appro ximat ely 60% ( 251 – 254 ). Risk fac -
tors include pr eexis ting dysgly cemia, BMI 
>25 kg /m
2
, and age >65 year s. Adequate 
management is crucial, as uncontrolled 
hyper glycemia can lead to discontinua -
tion and/o r reduction in medication dose, 
which can neg atively aff ect the efficacy of 
the ther apy ( 254 – 256 ).
Metf ormin is the firs t -line or al agent to 
treat PI3K inhibitor – induced hyper glyce -
mia, with uptitra tion of the dose as toler -
ated ( 256 ). Pioglita z one is also an option 
as monother apy or in combination with 
metf ormin, but its slow onset of action 
can limit its eff ectiveness ( 257 ). SGLT2 in -
hibitors ha ve also shown efficacy , but 
close monitoring is needed, as k etoacido -
sis has been report ed ( 258 ). Insulin and 
sulf on ylure as should be consider ed only 
as a las t res ort, as incr eased insulin levels 
may rea ctivate the PI3K pathwa y , coun -
ter acting the antitumor eff ects of PI3K 
inhibition ( 256 , 259 ). There is no dir ect ev -
idence f or the use of GLP -1 RAs f or PI3K 
inhibitor – induced hyper glycemia . They 
should not be considered f or treatment 
in this cir cumst ance at this time due to 
their uncert ain eff ect on PI3K inhibitor 
efficacy (based on their increase in insulin 
secret ion) and the potential to cause nau -
sea and vomiting.
mTOR kinase inhibitors, including everi -
lomus, cause hype rgly cemia by interf ering 
with insulin signaling , leading to impaired 
insulin secretion and increas ed insulin re -
sist ance. Metf ormin is the firs t -line tr eat -
ment of hyper glycemia secondary to 
mTOR inhibitor tre atment because of 
its efficacy and saf ety profile. Due to 
its ability to reduce insulin resis tance, 
pioglitaz one may be considered as a 
second-line treatment, depending on the 
risks of its adverse eff ects to the individ -
ual. There is no dir ect evidence r egar ding 
the efficacy of GLP -1 RAs or SGLT2 inhibi -
tor s f or mTOR inhibitor – induced hy pergly -
cemia; however , there is also no evidence 
that they impair the efficacy of the mTOR 
inhibitor . Thus, evaluation of their use as 
second- or thir d-line tr eatments f or this 
cir cumst ance should be made based on 
their overa ll benefits and risks. Insulin is 
typically r eserved f or cases of r efractory 
hyper glycemia after noninsulin tr eat -
ments ar e used, in the pr esence of intol -
erance or contraindica tions to noninsulin 
tre atments, or f or sever e hyper glycemia 
( 260 – 262 ).
Glucocorticoids (including pr ednisone 
and de xamethason e), which are often 
used as part of acute, adjunctive, and 
chro nic treatment of cancer and inflam -
matory conditions (e.g. , rheumatoid ar -
thritis and inflammatory bowel disease) 
as well as post tr ansplantation, cause hy -
pergl ycemia primarily by incr eased insulin 
resis tance and hepatic glucose pr oduc -
tion. Other contributing eff ects include in -
cr eased appetite, decreased production/ 
secret ion of insulin, and enhanced eff ects 
of counterr egulatory hormones (such as 
epinephrine) ( 263 – 266 ). The timing and 
ext ent of hyper glycemia vary based on 
the dose, dura tion, rout e of administr a -
tion (i.e., intra venous, oral, or intraarticu -
lar) and the specific glucocorticoid used 
( 265 – 271 ). For ex ample, with morning 
administr ation of pr ednisone (with the 
firs t meal of the da y), glucose st arts rising 
after the firs t meal, with peak eff ects in 
the afternoo n and evening, and declines 
to baseline by the nex t morning; in con -
tra st, with a single dose of dex ametha -
sone, glucose elevations may last more 
than 24 h with some decline overnight. 
The ext ent of the elevation is dependent 
on the dose, so as the glucocorticoid is ta -
pered , the ext ent of h ypergly cemia will 
S206 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
decline. Monitoring glucose levels solely 
in the morning may miss the ext ent of 
the h ypergly cemia exp erienced due to 
glucocorticoid use and prev ent appr opriat e 
management ( 263 , 265 – 267 , 272 ). Thus, 
glucose-lowering medication adjust ments 
or additions should mat ch the timing and 
e xtent of hyper glycemia and allow f or 
ra pid adjustment as the dose of the glu -
cocorticoid dose changes to minimiz e the 
lik elihood of h ypergly cemia and hypogly -
cemia. Insulin is the most frequently used 
glucose-lowering medication to manage 
h ypergly cemia secondary to glucocorti -
coid use. The selection of insulin type and 
dose depends on the dose and dura -
tion of the glucocorticoid ( 265 , 266 , 269 , 
272 – 275 ). Additions or dose adjust ments 
of sulf onylur eas, including meglitinides, 
ha ve also been used f or those with 
type 2 diabete s or no previous diagno -
sis of diabetes. Due to lack of dir ect evi -
dence and the time needed to achieve 
the glucose-lowering eff ect, additions 
or dose adjustments of other glucose- 
lowering medications ar e rese rved f or 
when st able doses of glucocorticoids are 
chr onically adminis t ered and are not f or 
acut e management ( 265 , 266 , 269 , 272 , 
275 , 276 ).
P ancreatic Diabetes and Cystic 
Fibrosis – Related Diabetes
Individuals with pancreatic diabete s may 
r equire early insulin initiation to achieve 
and mainta in glycemic goals. In individu -
als with a his tory of pancre atitis, use of 
incr etin medications (i.e., GLP -1 RAs, a 
dual GIP and GLP -1 RA, and DPP -4 inhibi -
tor s) should be a voided (see section 2, 
“ Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes ” ). 
Individuals with cyst ic fibros is – relat ed dia -
bet es should be treat ed with insulin ther -
apy; insulin pump therapy , including AID 
sy st ems, should be considered when ap -
pr opriat e ( 277 ).
P osttransplantation Diabetes Mellitus
The diagnosis of post tran splantation dia -
bet es mellitus (PTDM) r elies on the same 
glyc emic chara cteris tics as other f orms of 
diabet es. However , due to the unique ef -
f ects of immunosuppr essant drugs, an 
ora l glucose tolerance tes t (OGTT) is the 
pr ef erre d and most accur ate method f or 
diagnosis (compared with A1C or fasting 
plasma glucose) ( 278 ). In 2024, an up -
dat e fro m the 3rd Inte rnational PTDM 
Consensus Meeting recommended screen -
ing f or diabetes risk factors with a 
pretr ansplant OGTT while the individual 
is on the waitlis t, f ollowed by early OGTT 
at 3 months pos tt ransplant ation to diag -
nose PTDM and a late OGTT at 1 year 
and onward as appr opriate ( 279 ).
As with all st rat egies in metabo lic man -
agement, lif est yle modifications re main a 
mainst ay of long-te rm management. The 
Comparing Gly caemic Benefits of Active 
Versus P assive Lif estyle Inte rvention in 
Kidney Allograft Re cipients (CAVIAR) study 
compared active and passive lif estyles 
after kidney transpl antation using be -
havior therapy and f ound a s tatis tically 
significant reduct ion in fat mass and 
weight loss with active lif es tyle. However , 
there were no changes in the primary 
outcomes of glucose metabo lism (i.e., in -
sulin secr etion, insulin sensitivity , or dis -
position index). The rat e of PTDM was 
halved in the active gro up, but this find -
ing was not st atis tically significant ( 280 ).
In early postoper ative periods, insulin 
is the pr ef erred drug f or gly cemic man -
agement due to its lack of inter actions 
with other tr ansplant medications, imme -
diate efficacy , and added pote ntial to pr e -
vent PTDM, albeit with the exp ected risk 
of hypogly cemia ( 281 – 283 ). Sulf on ylure as 
may also be used f or individuals with st a -
ble kidney function with similar pr ecau -
tions of hypogly cemia, but they may not 
conf er any added metabolic benefits out -
side of glucose management ( 284 ).
Although still limited, data ar e incre as -
ing to inf orm the optimal pharmacologic 
management of PTDM and pree xist ing 
type 2 diabetes at the time of transplant 
( 285 , 286 ) (f or diagnosis and classification 
of PTDM, see section 2, “ Diagnosis and 
Classification of Diabetes ”). While many in -
dividuals requir e insulin therapy imme -
diately pos ttr ansplantat ion, noninsulin 
therapies can be used f or long-t erm man -
agement. Studies of metf ormin, DPP -4 in -
hibitors, SGLT2 inhibitor s, GLP -1 RAs, and 
pioglitaz one in individuals who have un -
dergone solid org an tr ansplantation ha ve 
demonstr ated eff ectiveness and saf ety 
but are limited by small sample siz es, 
short f ollow -up, and risk of bias due to 
retr ospective, single-center , or single-arm 
prospective designs ( 287 ). The majority 
of studie s are in individuals who ha ve 
undergone kidney tra nsplanta tion, but 
studies in liver and heart transplant ation 
are av ailable to a lesser degree as well. 
Selection of pharmacothera peutic classes 
should ta k e into account org an-specific 
physiology , immunosuppr essant plan, and 
general metabo lic and card iovascular 
circums tances.
Metf ormin can be used but with cau -
tion; it should not be initiat ed if eGFR is 
<45 mL/min/1.73 m
2
, and it should be 
discontinued with eGFR <30 mL/min/ 
1.73 m
2
. Limita tions in metf ormin use in -
clude the risk of lactic acidosis with fluctu -
ating kidney function, either with graft 
dysfunction or rejection in kidney trans -
plantation or acute kidney injury in other 
solid or gan transplant ation. Metf ormin 
use may be associated with lower risks of 
cardiac allogr aft vasculopathy after heart 
transplant ation ( 288 ) and all-cause, malig -
nancy -relat ed, and inf ection-relat ed mor -
tality after kidney tr ansplantation ( 289 ).
DPP -4 inhibitor s ha ve been shown to 
be saf e and eff ective post tr ansplantation 
in RCT s, even in the immediat e pos ttr ans -
plant period f or mild h ypergly cemia or 
impaired glucose toleranc e, and ha ve the 
potential to decr ease pr ogression to PTDM 
( 290 ).
GLP -1 RA thera py may be pref err ed f or 
man y individuals, as shown by increasin g 
evidence from large ret rospective studies 
on the benefits of GLP -1 RAs on card io -
vascular , kidney , weight loss, and glucose 
lowering outcomes. Studies have not f ound 
an y concern f or negative inte raction with 
immunosuppressants, which would ne -
cessitat e changes in in dosing ( 291 – 303 ). 
However , caution should be used when 
gas tr ointes tinal side eff ects occur , particu -
larly if individuals ha ve this additive eff ect 
to the side eff ects of the immunosuppres -
sants. Additionally , in lung tra nsplant r ecip -
ients, gas tr opares is and ga str oesophageal 
reflux are of particular concern, as these 
conditions may induce allograft lung dam -
age and are fr equent side eff ects of GLP -1 
RAs. A gas tric emptying study may be use -
ful in identifying ideal candidates bef or e 
initiation.
SGLT2 inhibitors ma y be similarly pr e -
f erred f or individuals with ASCVD, HF, 
and CKD and appear to be saf e and eff ec -
tive in PTDM ( 304 – 309 ). However , there 
is incre ased risk of genitourinary tr act in -
f ection, which is of particular concern in 
immunosuppressed individuals. Of note , 
kidney tra nsplant recip ients ha ve an in -
nate anatomical incre ased risk of urinary 
tract inf ections (UTIs), particularly imme -
diately post transplant when the uret eral 
st ent is still in place. Prior history of UTIs 
and individual risk of UTIs should be con -
sidered when using this class after kidney 
transplant.
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S207 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
It is essential that diabete s manage -
ment pos tt ransplant ation is implemented 
in the setting of an interpr of essional team . 
The transplant physicians and the endocri -
nologists should work collabor atively to 
monitor f or medication toxi city and delete -
rious side eff ects that may aff ect allogr aft 
function and to optimiz e card iovascular 
and metabolic outcome s.
Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the 
Young
Individuals with maturity -onset diabetes 
of the young due to HNF1A and HNF4A 
mutations can be tr eated with low -dose 
sulf on ylurea therapy but ma y ultimately r e -
quire insulin therapy ( 310 ) (see section 2, 
“ Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes ”) 
( Table 2.7 ). For those with HNF1A muta -
tions, addition of a DPP -4 inhibitor to the 
sulf on ylurea ma y help impr ove glycemic var -
iability and at ta inment of glycemic goals 
( 311 ). Individuals with neonatal diabetes 
due to KCNJ22 and ABCC8 mutations can 
be treat ed with high-dose sulf onylur eas, 
while those with INS, GATA6, EIF2AK3, and 
FO XP3 mutati ons requir e insulin therapy 
( 310 ).
SGLT Inhibition and Risk of Ketosis
Individuals with type 1 diabetes ( 83 , 312 ) 
and insulin-deficient type 2 diabetes are 
at incr eased risk f or DKA with SGLT inhibitor 
therapy (SGLT2 inhibitors or the SGLT1/2 in -
hibitor). SGLT inhibitor – associate d DKA oc -
curs in appro ximat ely 4% of people with 
type 1 diabete s; the risk can be 5 – 17 times 
higher than that in people with type 1 
diabetes not treat ed with SGLT inhibitor s 
( 313 ). It is important to note that SGLT2 in -
hibitors are not appro ved f or use in people 
with type 1 diabete s. In contr ast , DKA is un -
common in people with type 2 diabetes 
treat ed with SGLT inhibitor s, with an esti -
mated incidence of 0.6 – 4.9 events per 
1,000 person-y ear s ( 314 ). Risk factors 
f or DKA in individuals with either type 1 
or type 2 diabetes treat ed with SGLT in -
hibitors include very -low -carbohy dra te eat -
ing pat terns, prolonged fast ing, dehy dratio n, 
ex cessive alcohol int ak e, and other common 
precipit ating factors ( 83 , 312 ). Up to a thir d 
of people treat ed with SGLT2 inhibitors who 
developed DKA present with glucose levels 
<200 mg /dL (<11.1 mmol/L) ( 315 ), and in 
one study 71% prese nted with glucose 
levels ≤250 mg /dL (≤13.9 mmol/L) 
( 316 ); theref ore, it is important to edu -
cate at -risk individuals about the signs 
and sy mptoms of DKA and DKA mitigation 
and management and to pr escribe accu -
rat e tools f or k etone measureme nt. Indi -
viduals who have exp erienced DKA should 
not be treat ed with SGLT inhibition. Addi -
tional guidance on DKA risk mitigation is 
available in section 6, “ Gly cemic Goals, 
Hypoglycemia , and Hyperg lycemic Crises .”
References
1. Diabetes Control and Complications T rial 
(DCCT)/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions 
and Complications (EDIC) Study Resear ch Group. 
Mortality in type 1 diabete s in the DCCT /EDIC 
versus the general population. Diabetes Care 
2016;39:1378 – 1383
2. Lachin JM, Bebu I, Nathan DM; DCCT /EDIC 
Resear ch Group . The beneficial eff ects of earlier 
versus later implementation of int ensive therapy in 
type 1 diabet es. Diabetes Care 2021;44:2225 – 2230
3. Lachin JM, Nathan DM; DCCT /EDIC Resear ch 
Group. Unders tanding metabolic memory: the 
prolonged influence of glyce mia during the Diabetes 
Control and Complications T rial (DCCT) on future 
risks of complications during the study of the 
Epidemiology of Diabet es Interventions and 
Complications (EDIC). Diabetes Care 2021;44: 
2216 – 2224
4. Holt RIG, DeV ries JH, Hess-Fischl A, et al. The 
management of type 1 diabete s in adults. a 
consensus report by the American Diabet es 
Association (ADA) and the European Association 
f or the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabet es Care 
2021;44:2589 – 2625
5. T ricco AC, Ashoor HM, Antony J, et al. Saf ety , 
eff ectiveness, and cost eff ectiveness of long 
acting versus intermediat e acting insulin f or 
patients with type 1 diabetes: sy st ematic revie w 
and network meta-analys is. BMJ 2014;349:g5459
6. Bartley PC, Bogoev M, Larsen J, Philotheou A. 
Long-term efficacy and saf ety of insulin det emir 
compared to Neutral Pr otamine Hagedorn insulin 
in patients with type 1 diabete s using a treat -to- 
tar get basal-bolus regimen with insulin aspart at 
meals: a 2-year , randomiz ed, controlled trial. 
Diabet Med 2008;25:442 – 449
7. Little S, Shaw J, Home P . Hypoglycemia rat es 
with basal insulin analogs. Diabetes Technol Ther 
2011;13(Suppl. 1):S53 – S64
8. Aronson R, Biest er T , Leohr J, et al. Ultra rapid 
lispro showed gre ater reduction in postpr andial 
glucose versus Humalog in children, adolescents 
and adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2023;25:1964 – 1972
9. Heise T , Pieber TR, Danne T , Erichsen L, Haahr 
H. A pooled analysis of clinical pharmacology trials 
inves tig ating the pharmacokinetic and pharma- 
codynamic charact eristics of fast -acting insulin aspart 
in adults with type 1 diabetes. Clin Pharmacokinet 
2017;56:551 – 559
10. Bode BW , McGill JB, Lorber DL, Gross JL, 
Chang PC, Bregman DB; Affinity 1 Study Group. 
Inhaled Technosphere insulin compared with 
injected prandial insulin in type 1 diabetes: a 
randomiz ed 24-week trial. Diabetes Car e 2015;38: 
2266 – 2273
11. Russell-Jones D, Bode BW , De Block C, et al. 
Fast -acting insulin aspart impr oves glycemic 
control in basal-bolus treatment f or type 1 diabetes: 
results of a 26-week multicenter , active-controlled, 
treat -to-tar get, ran domiz ed, par allel-group trial 
(onset 1). Diabete s Care 2017;40:943 – 950
12. Klaff L, Cao D, Dellva MA, et al. Ultra rapid 
lispro improves postpr andial glucose control 
compared with lispro in patients with type 1 
diabetes: res ults from the 26-week PRONTO-T1D 
study . Diabet es Obes Metab 2020;22:1799 – 1807
13. Lane W , Bailey TS, Gerety G, et al.; SWITCH 
1. Eff ect of insulin degludec vs insulin glargine 
U100 on hypogly cemia in patients with type 1 
diabetes: the SWITCH 1 randomiz ed clinical trial. 
JAMA 2017;318:33 – 44
14. Home PD, Bergens tal RM, Bolli GB, et al. 
New insulin glargine 300 units/mL versus glargine 
100 units/mL in people with type 1 diabetes : a 
randomiz ed, phase 3a, open-label clinical trial 
(EDITION 4). Diabetes Care 2015;38:2217 – 2225
15. Yeh H-C, Brown TT , Maruthur N, et al. 
Comparative eff ectiveness and saf ety of methods 
of insulin delivery and glucose monitoring f or 
diabetes mellitus: a sy st ematic re view and meta- 
analysis. Ann Intern Med 2012;157:336 – 347
16. Speight J, Choudhary P , Wilmot EG, et al. 
Impact of glycae mic technologies on quality of 
lif e and relat ed out comes in adults with type 1 
diabetes: a narrative review . Diabet Med 2023;40: 
e14944
17. T zivian L, Sok olovska J, Grik e AE, et al. 
Quantitative and qualita tive analysis of the 
quality of lif e of type 1 diabetes patients using 
insulin pumps and of those rece iving multiple daily 
insulin injections. Health Qual Lif e Outcom es 
2022;20:120
18. Mulinacci G, Alonso GT , Snell-Bergeon JK, 
Shah VN. Glycemic outcomes with early initiation 
of continuous glucose monitoring sy st em in 
recently diagnosed patients with type 1 diabetes . 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:6 – 10
19. Elbalshy M, Haszar d J, Smith H, et al. Eff ect 
of divergent continuous glucose monitoring 
technologies on glycaemic control in type 1 
diabetes mellitus: a sy st ematic re view and meta- 
analysis of randomised controlled trials. Diabet 
Med 2022;39:e14854
20. Champakanath A, Akturk HK, Alonso GT , 
Snell-Bergeon JK, Shah VN. Continuous glucose 
monitoring initiation within firs t year of type 1 
diabetes diagnosis is associat ed with impr oved 
glycemic out comes: 7-year f ollow -up stu dy . 
Diabetes Care 2022;45:750 – 753
21. Polonsky WH, Hessler D, Ruedy KJ, Beck RW ; 
DIAMOND Study Group . The impact of continuous 
glucose monitoring on mark ers of quality of lif e in 
adults with type 1 diabet es: further findings from 
the DIAMOND randomiz ed clinical trial. Diabetes 
Care 2017;40:736 – 741
22. Bergens tal RM, Klonoff DC, Gar g SK, et al.; 
ASPIRE In-Home Study Group. Threshold-ba sed 
insulin-pump interruption f or red uction of hypo- 
glycemia. N Engl J Med 2013;369:224 – 232
23. Forlenza GP , Li Z, Buckingham BA, et al. 
Predictive low -glucose suspend reduces hypo- 
glycemia in adults, adolescents, and children with 
type 1 diabete s in an at -home randomiz ed cr ossover 
study: results of the PROLOG trial. Diabetes Care 
2018;41:2155 – 2161
24. Brown SA, Kovatche v BP , Raghinaru D, et al.; 
iDCL T rial Resear ch Group. Six -month ra ndomiz ed, 
multicenter trial of closed-loop control in type 1 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1707 – 1717
25. Collyns OJ, Meier RA, Betts ZL, et al. 
Improved glycemic outcomes with Medtron ic 
S208 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
MiniMed advanced hybrid closed-loop delivery: 
r esults fro m a randomiz ed crossover trial comparing 
automat ed insulin delivery with pred ictive low 
glucose suspend in people with type 1 diabetes. 
Diabetes Care 2021;44:969 – 975
26. Br eton MD, Kovatchev BP . One year real-world 
use of the control-IQ advanced hybrid closed-loop 
techn ology . Diabetes Technol Ther 2021;23:601 – 608
27. P eacock S, Friz elle I, Hussain S. A sys tematic 
re view of commer cial hybrid closed-loop automated 
insulin delivery sys tems. Diabetes Ther 2023;14: 
839 – 855
28. Choudhary P , Kolassa R, Keuthage W , et al.; 
ADAPT stu dy Group. Advanced hybrid closed loop 
thera py versus conventional treatment in adults with 
type 1 diabetes (ADAPT): a randomised controlled 
st udy . Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2022;10:720 – 731
29. Arunachalum S, Velado K, Vigersk y RA, 
Cor dero TL. Glycemic outcomes during real-world 
hybr id closed-loop sys tem use by individuals with 
type 1 diabetes in the Unit ed Stat es. J Diabetes 
Sci Technol 2023;17:951 – 958
30. Gar g SK, Grunberger G, Weinstock R, et al.; 
Adult and P ediatric MiniMed HCL Out comes 6- 
month RCT : HCL versus CSII Control Study Group. 
Impr oved glycemia with hybrid closed-loop versu s 
continuous subcuta neous insulin infusion therapy: 
r esults from a ra ndomiz ed controlled trial. Diabetes 
Technol Ther 2023;25:1 – 12
31. Russell SJ, Beck RW , Damiano ER, et al.; Bionic 
P ancreas Resear ch Group. Multicenter , randomiz ed 
trial of a bionic pancreas in type 1 diabetes. N Engl J 
Med 2022;387:1161 – 1172
32. Stahl -Pehe A, Shokri-Mashhadi N, Wirth M, et al. 
Efficacy of automat ed insulin delivery sys tems in 
people with type 1 diabet es: a s yst ematic review and 
network meta-a nalysis of outpatient r andomised 
contr olled trials. EClinicalMedicine 2025;82:103190
33. Burnside MJ, Lewis DM, Crock et HR, et al. 
Open-sour ce automated insulin delivery in type 1 
diabete s. N Engl J Med 2022;387:869 – 881
34. Burnside MJ, Lewis DM, Crock et HR, et al. 
Exten ded use of an open-sourc e automated insulin 
delivery sys tem in children and adults with type 1 
diabet es: the 24-week continuation phase f ollowing 
the CREATE ra ndomiz ed controlled trial. Diabetes 
Technol Ther 2023;25:250 – 259
35. Lepore G, Rossini A, Bellante R, et al. 
Switch ing to the Minimed 780G sys tem achieves 
clinical tar gets f or CGM in adults with type 1 diabet es 
reg ar dless of previous insulin st rat egy and baseline 
glucose control. Acta Diabetol 2022;59:1309 – 1315
36. Mate jk o B, Juza A, Kie �c-Wilk B, et al. 
T ran sitioning of people with type 1 diabete s from 
multiple daily injections and self -monitoring of blood 
glucose directly to MiniMed 780G advanced hybrid 
closed-loop sys tem: a two-center , ra ndomiz ed, 
contr olled st udy . Diabetes Care 2022;45:2628 – 2635
37. Isgan aitis E, Raghinaru D, Ambler -Osborn L, 
et al.; iDCL T rial Resear ch Group. Closed-loop insulin 
thera py impr oves glycemic control in adolescents 
and young adults: outcomes from the inte rnational 
diabet es closed-loop trial. Diabetes Technol Ther 
2021;23:342 – 349
38. Forlenz a GP , Carlson AL, Galindo RJ, et al. 
R eal-world evidence supporting tandem contr ol- 
IQ hybrid closed-loop success in the Medicare and 
Medicaid type 1 and type 2 diabetes populations. 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2022;24:814 – 823
39. Lal RA, Maahs DM. Optimizing basal insulin 
dosing. J Pe diatr 2019;215:7 – 8
40. Mitsui Y , Kur oda A, Ishizu M, et al. Basal 
insulin requir ement in patients with type 1 diabetes 
depends on the age and body mass index. J Diabetes 
Inves tig 2022;13:292 – 298
41. Cast ellano E, At tanasio R, Giagulli VA, et al.; 
Associazione Medici Endocrinologi (AME). The basal 
to total insulin ratio in outpatients with diabetes on 
basal-bolus reg imen. J Diabetes Metab Disord 2018; 
17:393 – 399
42. Matejk o B, Kukułk a A, Kie �c-Wilk B, Sta ˛pór A, 
Klupa T , Malecki MT . Basal insulin dose in adults 
with type 1 diabetes mellitus on insulin pumps in 
real-lif e clinical practice: a single-center experience. 
Adv Med 2018;2018:1473160
43. King AB. Mean basal insulin dose is 0.2 U/kg /d 
at near normal glycaemi a f or type 1 or 2 diabetes on 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion or once- 
nightly basal insulin. Diabetes Obesity Metabolism 
2021;23:866 – 869
44. Pet ers Al, Laf ell L. The American Diabetes 
Association/JDRF T ype 1 Diabetes Sourcebook. 
American Diabetes Association, 2013
45. Chiang JL, Kirkman MS, Laff el LMB, Pe ter s AL, 
T ype 1 Diabetes Sourcebook Authors. T ype 1 diabetes 
through the lif e span: a position st ate ment of the 
American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2014; 
37:2034 – 2054
46. Sämann A, Mühlhauser I, Bender R, Hunger - 
Dathe W , Kloos C, Müller U A. Flexib le intensive 
insulin therapy in adults with type 1 diabetes and 
high risk f or severe hypogly cemia and diabetic 
k etoacidosis. Diabet es Care 2006;29:2196 – 2199
47. Builes-Montaño CE, Ortiz-Cano NA, Ramirez- 
Rincón A, Rojas-Henao NA. Efficacy and saf ety of 
carbohy drat e counting versus other f orms of 
dietary advice in patients with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus: a sy st ematic review and meta-analys is 
of randomised clinical trials. J Hum Nutr Diet 
2022;35:1030 – 1042
48. Al Balwi R, Al Madani W , Al Ghamdi A. 
Efficacy of insulin dosing algorithms f or high-fat 
high-prot ein mix ed meals to control postpr andial 
glycemic ex cursions in people living with type 1 
diabetes: a sys tematic review and meta-analysis. 
Pediatr Diabet es 2022;23:1635 – 1646
49. DAFNE Study Gr oup. T raining in flexible, 
intensive insulin management to enable dietar y 
freedom in people with type 1 diabetes: Dose 
Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) randomised 
controlled trial. BMJ 2002;325:746
50. Hopkins D, Lawrence I, Mansell P , et al. Improv ed 
biomedical and psy chological outcom es 1 year after 
structur ed education in flexible insulin therapy 
f or people with type 1 diabetes: the U.K. DAFNE 
experience. Diabetes Car e 2012;35:1638 – 1642
51. Speight J, Amiel SA, Bradley C, et al. Long- 
term biomedical and psy chosocial outcomes f ollowing 
DAFNE (Dose Adjustm ent For Normal Eating) 
structur ed education to promot e intensive insulin 
therapy in adults with sub-optimally controlled type 1 
diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2010;89:22 – 29
52. Bruttomesso D, Boscari F, Lepore G, et al. A 
“slide rule” to adjust insulin dose using trend arrows 
in adults with type 1 diabetes: t est in silico and in real 
lif e. Diabetes Ther 2021;12:1313 – 1324
53. Aleppo G, Laff el LM, Ahmann AJ, et al. A 
practical approach to using tr end arr ows on the 
Dex com G5 CGM sys tem f or the management of 
adults with diabetes. J Endocr Soc 2017;1:1445 – 1460
54. Buckingham B, Xing D, Weinzimer S, et al.; 
Diabetes Resear ch In Children Network (Dir ecNet) 
Study Group. Use of the DirecNet Applied T reatment 
Algorithm (DATA) f or diabetes management with a 
real-time continuous glucose monitor (the FreeSt yle 
Navig ator). Pediatr Diabetes 2008;9:142 – 147
55. P arise M, Di Molf ett a S, Graziano RT , et al. A 
head-to-head comparison of two algorithms f or 
adjusting mealtime insulin doses based on CGM 
trend arrows in adult patients with type 1 diabetes: 
results from an e xploratory study . Int J Env iron Res 
Public Health 2023;20:3945
56. Petr ovski G, Campbell J, P asha M, et al. 
Simplified meal announcement vers us prec ise 
carbohy drat e counting in adolescents with type 1 
diabetes using the MiniMed 780G advanced 
hybrid closed loop sys tem: a randomiz ed contro lled 
trial comparing glucose control. Diabetes Care 2023; 
46:544 – 550
57. T urrin KB, T rujillo JM. Eff ects of diabetes 
numeracy on glycemic control and diabetes self - 
management behavior s in patients on insulin pump 
therapy . Diabetes Ther 2019;10:1337 – 1346
58. White RO, W olff K, Cavanaugh KL, Rothman 
R. Addressing health liter acy and numeracy to 
improve diabetes education and care. Diabet es 
Spectr 2010;23:238 – 243
59. Sacks DB, Arnold M, Bakris GL, et al. Guidelines 
and recommendations f or laboratory analysis in the 
diagnosis and management of diabetes mellitus. 
Diabetes Car e 2023;46:e151 – e199
60. Klonoff DC, Berar d L, Franc o DR, et al. Advance 
insulin injection technique and education with FITTER 
f orward expert r ecommendations. May o Clin Pr oc 
2025;100:682 – 699
61. Bergens tal RM, Strock ES, Per emislov D, 
Gibney MA, P arvu V , Hir sch LJ. Saf ety and efficacy 
of insulin thera py delivered via a 4mm pen needle in 
obese patients with diabetes. May o Clin Proc 2015; 
90:329 – 338
62. Qiao Y -C, Ling W , P an Y -H, et al. Efficacy and 
saf ety of pramlintide injection adjunct to insulin 
therapy in patients with type 1 diabet es mellitus: a 
sys tem atic review and meta-analysis. Oncot arget 
2017;8:66504 – 66515
63. Meng H, Zhang A, Liang Y , Hao J, Zhang X, Lu 
J. Eff ect of metf ormin on glycaemic control in 
patients with type 1 diabetes : a meta-analysis of 
randomiz ed controlled trials. Diabetes Metab R es 
Rev 2018;34:e2983
64. Petrie JR, Chaturvedi N, Ford I, et al.; 
REMOVAL Study Grou p. Cardiovascular and metaboli c 
eff ects of metf ormin in patients with type 1 diabetes 
(REMOVAL): a double-blind, rand omised, placebo- 
controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2017;5: 
597 – 609
65. Mathieu C, Zinman B, Hemmingsson JU, et 
al.; ADJUNCT ONE Inves tigator s. Efficacy and 
saf ety of liragl utide added to insulin treatment in 
type 1 diabet es: the ADJUNCT ONE treat -to-tar get 
randomiz ed trial. Diabetes Car e 2016;39:1702 – 1710
66. Ahrén B, Hir sch IB, Pieber TR, et al.; ADJUNCT 
TWO Inves tigator s. Efficacy and saf ety of liraglutide 
added to capped insulin tr eatment in subjects with 
type 1 diabet es: the ADJUNCT TWO rando miz ed trial. 
Diabetes Car e 2016;39:1693 – 1701
67. von Herrath M, Bain SC, Bode B, et al.; Anti- 
IL-21 – liraglutide Study Gr oup inves tigator s and 
contributors. Anti-interleukin-21 antibody and 
liraglutide f or the preservation of β -cell function in 
adults with re cent -onset type 1 diabetes: a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 
2 trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2021;9:212 – 224
68. Garg SK, Kaur G, Haider Z, Rodriquez E, Beatson 
C, Snell-Bergeon J. Efficacy of semaglutide in over - 
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S209 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
weight and obese patients with type 1 diabetes. 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:184 – 189
69. Garg SK, Akturk HK, Kaur G, Beatson C, Snell- 
Bergeon J. Efficacy and saf ety of tirz epatide in 
overweight and obese adult patients with type 1 
diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:367 – 374
70. P asqua M-R, T soukas MA, Kobayati A, 
Aboznadah W , Jafar A, Haidar A. Subcutaneous 
weekly semaglutide with automated insulin delivery 
in type 1 diabetes: a double-blind, ra ndomiz ed, 
crossover trial. Nat Med 2025;31:1239 – 1245
71. Akturk HK, Dong F, Snell-Bergeon JK, 
Karak us KE, Shah VN. Efficacy and saf ety of 
tirz epatide in adults with type 1 diabetes: a proo f 
of concept observational study . J Diabetes Sci 
Technol 2025;19:292 – 296
72. Shah VN, Akturk HK, Kruger D, et al. 
Semaglutide in adults with type 1 diabetes and 
obesity . NEJM Evid 2025;4:EVIDoa2500173
73. National Library of Medicine. National Cente r f or 
Biotechnology Inf ormation. ClinicalT rials.gov . T ype 1 
Diabetes Impacts of Semaglutide on Car diovascular 
Outcomes (T1-DISCO) (NCT05819138). Accessed 23 
August 2025. Available from https ://clinicaltrials.gov/ 
study/NCT05819138?t ab=results
74. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
f or Biotechnology Inf ormation. ClinicalT rials.gov . T rial 
of Semaglutide f or Diabetic Kidney Disease in T ype 1 
Diabetes (RT1D) (NCT05822609). Accessed 20 August 
2025. Available from https:/ /www .clinicaltrials. 
gov/s tudy/NCT05822609
75. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
f or Biot echnology Inf ormation. ClinicalT rials.gov . 
Alleviating Carboh ydr ate Counting f or P atients with 
T ype-1 Diabetes Using a Closed Loop Sys t em with 
Weekly Subcutaneous Semaglutide (SEMA SMA) 
(NCT06387199). Accessed 20 August 2025. Available 
from https:// clinicaltrials.gov / study/NCT06387199
76. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
f or Biotechnology Inf ormation. ClinicalT rials.gov . 
Obesity Complicating T ype 1 Diabetes: GLP -1 
Analogue Anti-obesity T r eatment (NCT06411210). 
Accessed 20 Augus t 2025. Available from https:// 
clinicaltrials.gov /s tudy/NCT06411210
77. Rao L, Ren C, Luo S, Huang C, Li X. Sodium- 
glucose cotran sporter 2 inhibitors as an add-on 
therapy to insulin f or type 1 diabetes mellitus: 
meta-analysis of ran domiz ed contr olled trials. 
Acta Diabetol 2021;58:869 – 880
78. Li M, Liu Z, Yang X, et al. The eff ect of 
sodium-glucose cotransport er 2 inhibitors as an 
adjunct to insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes 
assessed by continuous glucose monitoring: a 
sys tematic revie w and meta-analys is. J Diabetes 
Complications 2023;37:108632
79. Chen M-B, Xu R-J, Zheng Q-H, Zheng X -W , 
Wang H. Efficacy and saf ety of sotagliflo zin adjuvant 
therapy f or type 1 diabetes mellitus: a sys tematic 
review and meta- analysis. Medicine (Baltimore) 
2020;99:e20875
80. U.S. Food and Drug Administr ation. FDA 
Introductory Remarks: January 17, 2019: 
Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory 
Committ ee Meeting. 2019. Accessed 25 August 
2025. Available from https://wa yback.arch ive-it.org / 
7993/20190207212714/https://www .f da.gov/ 
downloads/AdvisoryCommitt ees/Committ eesMeeting 
Materials/Drugs/EndocrinologicandMet abolicDrugs 
AdvisoryCommitt ee/UCM629782.pdf
81. Bhatt DL, Szar ek M, Steg PG, et al.; SOLOIST - 
WHF T rial Inves tigator s. Sotagliflo zin in patients 
with diabetes and recent worsening heart failure. 
N Engl J Med 2021;384:117 – 128
82. Bhatt DL, Szar ek M, Pitt B, et al.; SCORED 
Inves tigator s. Sota gliflozin in patients with diabetes 
and chronic kidney disease. N Engl J Med 2021;384: 
129 – 139
83. Danne T , Garg S, Pet ers AL, et al. International 
consensus on risk management of diabetic 
k etoacidosis in patients with type 1 diabet es tr eated 
with sodium-glucose cotransport er (SGLT) inhibitors. 
Diabetes Car e 2019;42:1147 – 1154
84. Herold KC, Bundy BN, Long SA, et al.; T ype 1 
Diabetes T rialNet Study Group. An anti-CD3 antibody , 
teplizumab, in rel atives at risk f or type 1 diabetes. N 
Engl J Med 2019;381:603 – 613
85. Lachin JM, McGee P , P almer JP; DCCT /EDIC 
Resear ch Group. Impact of C-peptide preservation on 
metabolic and clinical out comes in the Diabetes 
Control and Complications T rial. Diabetes 2014;63: 
739 – 748
86. Kosheleva L, Koshelev D, Lagunas-Rangel FA, 
Levit S, Rabinovitch A, Schiöth HB. Disease-modifying 
pharmacological treatment s of type 1 diabetes : 
molecular mechanisms, ta rget checkpoints, and 
possible combinatorial tr eatments. Pharmacol Rev 
2025;77:100044
87. Dean PG, Kukla A, St egall MD, Kudva YC. 
P ancre as transplant ation. BMJ 2017;357:j1321
88. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. Lantidra. 
Accessed 25 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www .f da. gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/lantidra
89. Geta ET , Terefa DR, Hailu WB, et al. 
Eff ectiveness of shar ed decision-making f or glycaemic 
control among type 2 diabetes mellitus adult patients: 
a sys tem atic review and met a-analysis. PLoS One 
2024;19:e0306296
90. Davies MJ, Aroda VR, Collins BS, et al. 
Management of hyper glycemia in type 2 diabetes, 
2022. A consensus report by the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) and the Europ ean Association f or 
the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care 2022;45: 
2753 – 2786
91. Lingvay I, Sumithra n P , Cohen RV , Le Roux CW . 
Obesity management as a primary treatment goal f or 
type 2 diabetes: time to refr ame the conver sation. 
Lancet 2022;399:394 – 405
92. Wing RR, Lang W , Wadden TA, et al.; Look 
AHEAD R esearch Group. Benefits of modes t weight 
loss in improving cardiovascular risk factors in 
overweight and obese individuals with type 2 
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1481 – 1486
93. Adler AI, Coleman RL, Leal J, Whit eley WN, 
Clark e P , Holman RR. Pos t -trial monitoring of a 
randomised controlled trial of intensive glycaemic 
control in type 2 diabet es ext ended from 10 year s to 
24 year s (UKPDS 91). Lancet 2024;404:145 – 155
94. Kunutsor SK, Balasubramanian VG, Zaccardi 
F, et al. Glycaemic contr ol and macrovascular and 
microvascular outcomes: a sys tematic review 
and meta-analys is of trials inves tigating intensive 
glucose-lowering st rat egies in people with type 2 
diabetes. Diabetes Obes Met ab 2024;26:2069 – 2081
95. Holman RR, P aul SK, Bethel MA, Matthews 
DR, Neil HAW . 10-y ear f ollow -up of intensive 
glucose control in type 2 diabetes . N Engl J Med 
2008;359:1577 – 1589
96. Bahardous t M, Mousavi S, Yariali M, et al. Eff ect 
of metf ormin (vs. placebo or sulf onylur ea) on all- 
cause and cardiovascular mortali ty and incident 
cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes: an 
umbrella review of sys tematic reviews with meta- 
analysis. J Diabetes Met ab Disord 2024;23:27 – 38
97. Maruthur NM, T seng E, Hutfless S, et al. 
Diabetes medications as monother apy or metf ormin- 
based combination thera py f or type 2 diabetes: a 
sys tematic review and meta-analysis. Ann Intern 
Med 2016;164:740 – 751
98. Karagiannis T , P aschos P , P aletas K, 
Matthews DR, T sapas A. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitors f or tre atment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus in the clinical setting: sys tematic review 
and meta-analys is. BMJ 2012;344:e1369
99. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. FDA Drug 
Saf ety Communication: FDA revises warnings 
reg arding use of the diabetes medicine metf ormin in 
certain patients with reduced kidney function. 
Accessed 25 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www .f da. gov/drugs/drug-saf ety -and-availability/f da- 
drug-saf ety -communication-f da-r evises-warnings- 
reg arding-use-diabet es-medicine-metf ormin-certain
100. Salpeter SR, Gr eyber E, P ast ernak GA, 
Salpeter EE. Risk of fatal and nonfat al lactic acidosis 
with metf ormin use in type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
sys tematic review and met a-analysis. Arch Intern 
Med 2003;163:2594 – 2602
101. Salpeter SR, Grey ber E, P ast ernak GA, Salpeter 
EE. Risk of fatal and nonfat al lactic acidosis with 
metf ormin use in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Cochrane 
Database Sys t Rev 2010;2010:CD002967
102. Lipska KJ, Bailey CJ, Inzucchi SE. Use of 
metf ormin in the setting of mild-to-moderat e renal 
insufficiency . Diabetes Care 2011;34:1431 – 1437
103. Out M, Kooy A, Lehert P , Schalkwijk CA, 
Stehouwer CDA. Long-term treatment with metf ormin 
in type 2 diabetes and meth ylmalonic acid: pos t hoc 
analysis of a randomiz ed controlled 4.3year trial. 
J Diabete s Complications 2018;32:171 – 178
104. Aroda VR, Edelst ein SL, Goldberg RB, et al.; 
Diabetes Prevention Progr am Resear ch Gr oup. 
Long-term metf ormin use and vitamin B12 deficiency 
in the Diabetes Preventi on Progr am Outc omes Study . 
J Clin Endocrinol Met ab 2016;101:1754 – 1761
105. Frías JP , Davies MJ, R osenstock J, et al.; 
SURPASS-2 In vestig ators. Tirz epatide versus 
semaglutide once weekly in patients with type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:503 – 515
106. Sorli C, Harashima S-I, T soukas GM, et al. 
Efficacy and saf ety of once-weekly semaglutide 
monotherapy versus placebo in patients with 
type 2 diabetes (SUSTAIN 1): a double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-controlle d, parallel-gr oup, 
multinational, multicentre phase 3a trial. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 2017;5:251 – 260
107. T sapas A, Avgerinos I, Karagiannis T , et al. 
Comparative eff ectiveness of glucose-lowering 
drugs f or type 2 diabetes: a sys tematic review 
and network meta-analysis. Ann Int ern Med 2020; 
173:278 – 286
108. Nathan DM, Lachin JM, Balasubraman yam 
A, et al.; GRADE Study R esearch Group. Glycem ia 
reduction in type 2 diabetes - glycemic outcomes. N 
Engl J Med 2022;387:1063 – 1074
109. Babu A, Mehta A, Guerrer o P , et al. Saf e 
and simple emergen cy department discharg e therapy 
f or patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and severe 
hyper glycemia. Endocr Pract 2009;15:696 – 704
110. Buse JB, Pet ers A, Russell-Jones D, et al. Is insulin 
the mos t eff ective injectable antihyper glycaemi c 
therapy? Diabetes Obes Met ab 2015;17:145 – 151
111. D’Alessio D, Häring H-U, Charbonnel B, et 
al.; EAGLE Inves tigator s. Comparison of insulin 
glargine and liraglutide added to oral agents in 
patients with poorly contr olled type 2 diabetes . 
Diabetes Obes Metab 2015;17:170 – 178
S210 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
112. Cahn A, Cefalu WT . Clinical considerations 
f or use of initial combination therapy in type 2 
diabet es. Diabetes Care 2016;39(Suppl. 2):S137 – S145
113. Abdul-Ghani MA, Puck ett C, T riplit t C, et al. 
Initial combination therapy with metf ormin, 
pioglit az one and ex enatide is more eff ective than 
sequential add-on therapy in subjects with new - 
onset diabetes . Results from the Efficacy and 
Durab ility of Initial Combination Therapy f or 
T ype 2 Diabetes (EDICT): a randomiz ed trial. 
Diabet es Obes Metab 2015;17:268 – 275
114. Cai X, Gao X, Yang W , Han X, Ji L. Efficacy 
and saf ety of initial combination therapy in treatment - 
naïve type 2 diabetes patients: a sys tematic review 
and meta-analysis. Diabet es Ther 2018;9:1995 – 2014
115. Aroda VR, Gonz ález-Galvez G, Grøn R, et al. 
Dur ability of insulin degludec plus liragl utide ver sus 
insulin glargine U100 as initial injectable thera py in 
type 2 diabet es (DU AL VIII): a multicentre, open-label, 
phase 3b, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes 
Endocrinol 2019;7:596 – 605
116. Khunti K, Davies MJ. Clinical inertia-time to 
re appraise the terminology? Prim Care Diabetes 
2017;11:105 – 106
117. Bennett WL, Maruthur NM, Singh S, et al. 
Comparati ve eff ectiveness and saf ety of medications 
f or type 2 diabetes: an update including new drugs 
and 2-drug combinations. Ann Intern Med 2011;154: 
602 – 613
118. Maloney A, Rosens tock J, Fonseca V . A 
model-based met a-analysis of 24 antihyper glyce mic 
drugs f or type 2 diabetes: comparison of treatment 
eff ects at therapeutic doses. Clin Pharmacol Ther 
2019;105:1213 – 1223
119. Lajthia E, Bucheit JD, Nadpara PA, et al. 
Combination therapy with once-weekly glucagon 
lik e peptide-1 receptor agonists and dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 inhibitor s in type 2 diabetes: a case 
series. Pharm Pract (Granada) 2019;17:1588
120. Violante R, Oliveira JHA, Y oon K-H, et al. A 
ran domiz ed non-inf eriority study comparing the 
addition of ex enatide twice daily to sitagliptin or 
switch ing fr om sitagliptin to ex enatide twice daily 
in patients with type 2 diabetes experiencing 
inadequate gly caemic contr ol on metf ormin and 
sitag liptin. Diabet Med 2012;29:e417 – e424
121. Nauck MA, Kahle M, Bara nov O, Deacon 
CF, Holst JJ. Addition of a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitor , sitagliptin, to ongoing therapy with the 
glucagon-lik e peptide-1 rec eptor agonist liraglutide: a 
ra ndomiz ed controll ed trial in patients with type 2 
diabet es. Diabetes Obes Metab 2017;19:200 – 207
122. Pratley R, Amod A, Hoff ST , et al.; PIONEER 4 
in vestig ators. Or al semaglutide versu s subcutan eous 
liragl utide and placebo in type 2 diabetes (PIONEER 
4): a ran domised, double-blind, phase 3a trial. Lancet 
2019;394:39 – 50
123. Del Prato S, Kahn SE, P a vo I, et al.; 
SURPASS-4 Inves tigator s. Tirz epatide versus 
insulin glargin e in type 2 diabetes and increased 
cardio vascular risk (SURPASS-4): a randomised, 
open-label, parallel-gr oup, multicentre, phase 3 
trial. Lancet 2021;398:1811 – 1824
124. Singh S, W right EE, Kwan AYM, et al. Glucagon- 
lik e peptide-1 receptor agonists compared with basal 
insulins f or the treatment of type 2 diabet es mellitus: 
a sys tematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2017;19:228 – 238
125. Levin PA, Nguy en H, Wittbr odt ET , Kim SC. 
Glucagon-lik e peptide-1 receptor agonists: a sys tematic 
re view of comparative eff ectiveness resear ch. Diabete s 
Met ab Syndr Obes 2017;10:123 – 139
126. Abd El Aziz MS, Kahle M, Meier JJ, Nauck 
MA. A meta-analysis comparing clinical eff ects of short - 
or long-acting GLP -1 receptor agonists vers us insulin 
treatment from head-to-head studies in type 2 diabetic 
patients. Diabete s Obes Metab 2017;19:216 – 227
127. Giorgino F, Benroubi M, Sun J-H, Zimmermann 
AG, Pechtner V . Efficacy and saf ety of once-weekly 
dulaglutide versus insulin glargi ne in patients with 
type 2 diabetes on metf ormin and glimepiride 
(AWARD-2). Diabetes Care 2015;38:2241 – 2249
128. Aroda VR, Bain SC, Cariou B, et al. Efficacy 
and saf ety of once-weekly semaglutide ver sus once- 
daily insulin glargine as add-on to metf ormin (with or 
without sulf onylu reas) in insulin-naive patients with 
type 2 diabete s (SUSTAIN 4): a randomised, open- 
label, parallel-gr oup, multicentre , multinational, phase 
3a trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2017;5:355 – 366
129. Davies M, Heller S, Sr eenan S, et al. Once- 
weekly ex enatide versus once- or twice-daily 
insulin det emir . Diabetes Care 2013;36:1368 – 1376
130. Diamant M, Van Gaal L, Strank s S, et al. 
Once weekly ex enatide compared with insulin 
glargine titrat ed to tar get in patients with type 2 
diabetes (DURATION-3): an open-label randomised 
trial. Lancet 2010;375:2234 – 2243
131. Dahl D, Onishi Y , Norwood P , et al. Eff ect of 
subcutaneous tirz epatide vs placebo added to 
titrat ed insulin glargine on glycemic control in 
patients with type 2 diabetes: the SURPASS-5 
randomiz ed clinical trial. JAMA 2022;327:534 – 545
132. P ack er M, Zile MR, Kramer CM, et al.; 
SUMMIT T rial Study Group. Tirz epatide f or heart 
failure with preserved ejection fraction and 
obesity . N Engl J Med 2025;392:427 – 437
133. Kosiborod MN, Petrie MC, Borlaug BA, et 
al.; STEP -HFpEF DM T rial Committ ees and 
Inves tigator s. Semaglutide in patients with 
obesity -re lated heart failure and type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2024;390:1394 – 1407
134. Pratley RE, T uttle KR, R ossing P , et al.; 
FLOW T rial Committ ees and Inves tigator s. Eff ects 
of semaglutide on heart failure outcomes in 
diabetes and chronic kidney disease in the FLOW 
trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2024;84:1615 – 1628
135. Kosiborod MN, Deanfield J, Pr atley R, et al.; 
SELECT , FLOW , STEP -HFpEF, and STEP -HFpEF DM 
T rial Committ ees and Inves tigator s. Semaglutide 
versus placebo in patients with heart failure and 
mildly reduced or preser ved ejection fractio n: a 
pooled analysis of the SELECT , FLOW , STEP - 
HFpEF, and STEP -HFpEF DM randomised trials. 
Lancet 2024;404:949 – 961
136. McCoy RG, Lipska KJ, Van Houten HK, Shah 
ND. Association of cumulative multimorbidity , 
glycemic control, and medication use with 
hypogly cemia-relat ed emergency department 
visits and hospitaliz ations among adults with 
diabetes. JAMA Netw Open 2020;3:e1919099
137. Nathan DM, Lachin JM, Bebu I, et al.; 
GRADE Study Resear ch Group. Glycemia reduc tion in 
type 2 diabetes - microvascular and cardiovascular 
outcomes. N Engl J Med 2022;387:1075 – 1088
138. McCoy RG, Herrin J, Swarna KS, et al. 
Eff ectiveness of glucose-lowering medications on 
cardiovascular out comes in patients with type 2 
diabetes at moderat e cardiovascu lar risk. Nat 
Cardiovasc Res 2024;3:431 – 440
139. Berg DD, Wiviott SD, Scirica BM, et al. Heart 
failure risk str atification and efficacy of sodium- 
glucose cotransport er -2 inhibitors in patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. Circulation 2019;140: 
1569 – 1577
140. Kidney Disease: improving Global Outcomes 
Diabetes W ork Group. KDIGO 2022 clinical practice 
guideline f or diabete s management in chronic 
kidney disease. Kidney Int 2022;102:S1 – S127
141. Krist ensen SL, Rørth R, Jhund PS, et al. 
Cardiovascular , mortality , and kidney outcomes 
with GLP -1 receptor agonists in patients with 
type 2 diabetes : a sys tematic review and meta- 
analysis of cardiovascular outcome trials. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 2019;7:776 – 785
142. Perk ovic V , T uttle KR, R ossing P , et al.; 
FLOW T rial Committ ees and Inves tigator s. Eff ects 
of semaglutide on chronic kidney disease in patients 
with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2024;391: 
109 – 121
143. Heerspink HJL, Sat tar N, P a vo I, et al. 
Eff ects of tirz epatide versus insulin glargine on 
kidney outcomes in type 2 diabetes in the 
SURPASS-4 trial: pos t -hoc analysis of an open- 
label, ran domised, phase 3 trial. Lancet Diabet es 
Endocrinol 2022;10:774 – 785
144. Heerspink HJL, Friedman AN, Bjornst ad P , et al. 
Kidney paramet ers with tirz epatide in obesity with or 
without type 2 diabetes. J Am Soc Nephrol 2025; 
36:2190 – 2200
145. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. Ex enatide 
ext ended-release prescribing inf ormation. Accessed 
20 September 2025. Available from https: // 
www .accessdat a.f da.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2018/ 
022200s026lbl.pdf
146. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. Lixisenatide 
prescribing inf ormation. Accessed 20 Sept ember 
2025. Available from https://pr oducts.sanofi.us/ 
soliqua100-33/soliqua100-33.pdf
147. Scheen AJ. Pharmacokinetics and clinical 
use of incretin-based therapies in patients with 
chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes. Clin 
Pharmacokinet 2015;54:1 – 21
148. McGuire DK, Shih WJ, Cosentino F, et al. 
Association of SGLT2 inhibitors with cardiovascular 
and kidney outco mes in patients with type 2 diabetes: 
a meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol 2021;6:148 – 158
149. Rey es-Farias CI, Reat egui-Diaz M, Romani- 
Romani F, Pr ok op L. The eff ect of sodium-glucose 
cotransport er 2 inhibitor s in patients with chronic 
kidney disease with or without type 2 diabetes 
mellitus on car diovascular and renal outcomes: a 
sys tematic r eview and met a-analysis. PLoS One 
2023;18:e0295059
150. Herrington WG, Staplin N, Wanner C, et al.; 
The Empa-Kidney Collaborative Group. Empagliflozin 
in patients with chronic kidney disease. N Engl J Med 
2023;388:117 – 127
151. Perk ovic V , Jardine MJ, Neal B, et al.; 
CREDENCE T rial Inves tigato rs. Canagliflozin and renal 
outcomes in type 2 diabetes and nephropath y . 
N Engl J Med 2019;380:2295 – 2306
152. Dagogo-Jack S, Pratley RE, Cherney DZI, et 
al. Glycemic efficacy and saf ety of the SGLT2 
inhibitor ertugliflozin in patients with type 2 
diabetes and st age 3 chro nic kidney disease: an 
analysis from the VERTIS CV randomiz ed trial. 
BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2021;9:e002484
153. Cherney DZI, Cooper ME, Tikkanen I, et al. 
Pooled analysis of phase III trials indicate contras ting 
influences of renal function on blood pressur e, body 
weight, and HbA1c reductions with empaglifloz in. 
Kidney Int 2018;93:231 – 244
154. Wexler DJ, de Boer IH, Ghosh A, et al.; 
GRADE Resear ch Group. Comparative eff ects of 
glucose-lowering medications on kidney outcomes in 
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S211 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
type 2 diabetes: the GRADE randomiz ed clinical trial. 
JAMA Intern Med 2023;183:705 – 714
155. Belf ort R, Harrison SA, Brow n K, et al. A 
placebo-controlled trial of pioglita z one in subjects 
with nonalcoholic st eatohepatitis. N Engl J Med 
2006;355:2297 – 2307
156. Sanyal AJ, Newsome PN, Kliers I, et al.; 
ESSENCE Study Group. Phase 3 trial of semaglutide in 
metabolic dysfunction-associated st eatohepatitis. N 
Engl J Med 2025;392:2089 – 2099
157. Newsome PN, Buchholtz K, Cusi K, et al.; 
NN9931-4296 Inves tigator s. A placebo-contr olled 
trial of subcutaneous semaglutide in nonalcoholic 
st eatohepatitis. N Engl J Med 2021;384:1113 – 1124
158. Loomba R, Hartman ML, Lawitz EJ, et al.; 
SYNERGY -NASH Inves tigator s. Tirz epatide f or met abolic 
dysfunction-associated st eatohepatitis with liver 
fibrosis. N Engl J Med 2024;391:299 – 310
159. Gast aldelli A, Cusi K, Fernández Landó L, 
Bra y R, Brou wers B, Rodríguez 
�
A. Eff ect of 
tirz epatide versus insulin degludec on liver fat 
content and abdominal adipose tissue in people 
with type 2 diabetes (SURPASS-3 MRI): a substudy 
of the r andomised, open-label, par allel-group, 
phase 3 SURPASS-3 trial. Lancet Diabet es Endocrinol 
2022;10:393 – 406
160. Armstr ong MJ, Gaunt P , Aithal GP , et al.; LEAN 
trial team. Liraglutide saf ety and efficacy in patients 
with non-alcoholic st eatohepatitis (LEAN): a 
multicentre, double-blind, ra ndomised, placebo- 
controlled phase 2 study . Lancet 2016;387:679 – 690
161. Sathyanar ayana P , Jogi M, Muthupillai R, 
Krishnamurthy R, Samson SL, Bajaj M. Eff ects of 
combined ex enatide and pioglitaz one therapy on 
hepatic fat cont ent in type 2 diabetes. Obesity 
(Silver Spring) 2011;19:2310 – 2315
162. Abdul-Ghani M, Migahid O, Megahed A, 
DeFronz o RA, Al-Ozairi E, Jayy ousi A. Combination 
therapy with pioglitaz one/ ex enatide improves beta- 
cell function and produces superior glyca emic control 
compared with basal/bolus insulin in poorly controll ed 
type 2 diabete s: a 3-year f ollow -up of the Qatar study . 
Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:2287 – 2294
163. Lavynenk o O, Abdul-Ghani M, Alatrach M, 
et al. Combination therapy with pioglit az one/ 
ex enatide/metf ormin reduces the prev alence of 
hepatic fibrosis and s teatosis: the efficacy and 
durability of initial combination thera py f or type 2 
diabetes (EDICT). Diabet es Obes Meta b 2022;24: 
899 – 907
164. Garvey WT , Frias JP , Jastr eboff AM, et al.; 
SURMOUNT -2 inves tigator s. Tirz epatide once 
weekly f or the tr eatment of obesity in people with 
type 2 diabetes (SURMOUNT -2): a double-blind, 
randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled, phase 
3 trial. Lancet 2023;402:613 – 626
165. Davies M, Færch L, Jeppesen OK, et al.; 
STEP 2 Study Gr oup. Semaglutide 2·4 mg once a 
week in adults with overweight or obesity , and 
type 2 diabetes (STEP 2): a randomised, double- 
blind, double-dumm y , placebo-controlle d, phase 
3 trial. Lancet 2021;397:971 – 984
166. Bonora E, Frias JP , Tinahones FJ, et al. Eff ect 
of dulaglutide 3.0 and 4.5 mg on weight in patients 
with type 2 diabetes: explor atory analyses of AWARD- 
11. Diabetes Obes Metab 2021;23:2242 – 2250
167. Davies MJ, Berge nst al R, Bode B, et al.; 
NN8022-1922 Study Group. Efficacy of liraglutide 
f or weight loss among patients with type 2 
diabetes: the SCALE diabetes randomiz ed clinical 
trial. JAMA 2015;314:687 – 699
168. Ahmann AJ, Capehorn M, Charpentier G, et al. 
Efficacy and saf ety of once-weekly semaglutide versus 
ex enatide er in subjects with type 2 diabetes (SUSTAIN 
3): a 56-week, open-label, ra ndomiz ed clinical trial. 
Diabetes Care 2018;41:258 – 266
169. Schauer PR, Bhatt DL, Kirwan JP , et al.; 
STAMPEDE Inves tigator s. Bariatric surgery vers us 
intensive medical therapy f or diabetes - 5-y ear 
outcomes. N Engl J Med 2017;376:641 – 651
170. Blonde L, Merilainen M, Karwe V , Raskin P , 
TITRATE Study Group. P atient -dir ected titratio n f or 
achieving glycaemi c goals using a once-daily basal 
insulin analogue: an assessment of two diff erent 
fasting plasma glucose t argets - the TITRATE st udy . 
Diabetes Obes Metab 2009;11:623 – 631
171. Lucidi P , Candelor o P , Cioli P , et al. 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic head- 
to-head comparison of clinical, equivalent doses 
of insulin glargine 300 units · mL
1 
and insulin 
degludec 100 units·mL
1 
in type 1 diabete s. Diabet es 
Care 2021;44:125 – 132
172. Wang Z, Hedrington MS, Gogitidz e Joy N, et al. 
Dose-response eff ects of insulin glargine in type 2 
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1555 – 1560
173. Semlitsch T , Engler J, Siebenhof er A, Jeitler K, 
Berghold A, Horvath K. (Ultra-)long-acting insulin 
analogues versus NPH insulin (human isophane 
insulin) f or adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Cochrane Database Sys t Rev 2020;11:CD005613
174. Mannucci E, Caiulo C, Naletto L, Madama 
G, Monami M. Efficacy and saf ety of diff ere nt 
basal and prandial insulin analogues f or the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes : a network meta- 
analysis of randomiz ed controlled trials. Endocrine 
2021;74:508 – 517
175. Russell-Jones D, Gall M-A, Niemeyer M, 
Diamant M, Del Prato S. Insulin degludec results 
in lower rat es of nocturnal hypogly caemia and 
fasting plasma glucose vs. insulin glargine: a 
meta-analysis of seven clinical trials. Nutr Metab 
Cardiovasc Dis 2015;25:898 – 905
176. Mehta R, Goldenberg R, Katselnik D, Kuritzky L. 
Practical guidance on the initiation, titration, and 
switching of basal insulins: a narrative review f or 
primary care. Ann Med 2021;53:998 – 1009
177. Cowart K. Overbasalization: addressing 
hesitancy in treatment intensifica tion bey ond 
basal insulin. Clin Diabetes 2020;38:304 – 310
178. Maiorino MI, Chiodini P , Bellast ella G, et al. 
The good companions: insulin and glucagon-lik e 
peptide-1 receptor agonist in type 2 diabet es. A 
sys t ematic review and meta-analysis of ra ndomiz ed 
controlled trials. Diabetes Re s Clin Pract 2019;154: 
101 – 115
179. Rodbar d HW , Visco VE, Andersen H, Hiort 
LC, Shu DHW . T reat ment inte nsification with 
st epwise addition of prandial insulin aspart boluses 
compared with full basal-bolus therapy (FullSTEP 
Study): a randomised, tr eat -to-t arget clinical trial. 
Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2014;2:30 – 37
180. McCall AL. Insulin thera py and hypogly cemia. 
Endocrinol Met ab Clin North Am 2012;41:57 – 87
181. Fullerton B, Siebenhof er A, Jeitler K, et al. 
Short -acting insulin analogues versus reg ular 
human insulin f or adult, non-pr egnant persons 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database 
Sys t Rev 2018;12:CD013228
182. de la Peña A, Riddle M, Morrow LA, et al. 
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of 
high-dose human regular U-500 insulin vers us 
human regular U-100 insulin in healthy obese 
subjects. Diabetes Care 2011;34:2496 – 2501
183. Hood RC, Borra S, Fan L, Pollom RD, Huang 
A, Chen J. T rea tment pat terns and outcomes, bef ore 
and aft er humulin R U-500 initiation, among high- 
dose type 2 diabetes mellitus patients in the United 
Stat es. Endocr Prac t 2021;27:798 – 806
184. Beck er RHA, Dahmen R, Bergman n K, 
Lehmann A, Jax T , Heise T . New insulin glargine 
300 units · mL
1 
pro vides a more even activity 
profile and pr olonged gly cemic control at st eady 
st ate compared with insulin glargine 100 units · 
mL
1
. Diabetes Care 2015;38:637 – 643
185. Riddle MC, Yki-Järvinen H, Bolli GB, et al. 
One-year sust ained glycaemic contr ol and less 
hypogly caemia with new insulin glargine 300 
U/ml compared with 100 U/ml in people with 
type 2 diabetes using basal plus meal-time 
insulin: the EDITION 1 12-month ra ndomiz ed 
trial, including 6-month ext ension. Diabetes 
Obes Meta b 2015;17:835 – 842
186. Yki-Järvinen H, Berge nst al R, Ziemen M, 
et al. New insulin glargine 300 units/mL vers us 
glargine 100 units/mL in people with type 2 
diabetes using oral agents and basal insulin: 
glucose control and hypogly cemia in a 6-month 
randomiz ed controlled trial (EDITION 2). Diabetes 
Care 2014;37:3235 – 3243
187. Korsatk o S, Deller S, Koehler G, et al. A 
comparison of the st eady -st ate pharmacokinetic 
and pharmacodynamic profiles of 100 and 200 
U/mL f ormulations of ultra-long-acting insulin 
degludec. Clin Drug Inves tig 2013;33:515 – 521
188. de la Peña A, Seger M, Soon D, et al. Bio- 
equivalence and comparative pharmacodyna- 
mics of insulin lispro 200 U/mL relative to insulin 
lispro (Humalog) 100 U/mL. Clin Pharmacol Drug 
Dev 2016;5:69 – 75
189. Gentile S, Fusco A, Colarusso S, et al. A 
randomiz ed, open-label, comparative, crossover 
trial on pref erence, efficacy , and saf ety profiles of 
lispro insulin u-100 versus concentrat ed lispro 
insulin u-200 in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: a possible contribution to great er tr eatment 
adherence. Expert Opin Drug Saf 2018;17:445 – 450
190. Grant M, Heise T , Baughman R. Comparison of 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of inhaled 
technospher e insulin and subcutan eous insulin lispro 
in the treatment of type 1 diabet es mellitus. Clin 
Pharmacokinet 2022;61:413 – 422
191. Akturk HK, Snell-Bergeon JK, Re wers A, 
et al. Improved postpr andial glucose with 
inhaled technospher e insulin compared with 
insulin aspart in patients with type 1 diabetes 
on multiple daily injections: the STAT study . 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2018;20:639 – 647
192. Hoogwerf BJ, P antalone KM, Basina M, Jones 
MC, Grant M, Kendall DM. R esults of a 24-week trial 
of Technosphere insulin versus insulin aspart in 
type 2 diabetes. Endocr Pract 2021;27:38 – 43
193. Price DA, Deng Q , Kipnes M, Beck SE. 
Episodic real-time CGM use in adults with type 2 
diabetes: res ults of a pilot randomiz ed contr olled 
trial. Diabetes Ther 2021;12:2089 – 2099
194. Chesser H, Srinivasan S, Puck ett C, 
Gitelman SE, W ong JC. Real-time continuous 
glucose monitoring in adolescents and young 
adults with type 2 diabetes can improve quality 
of lif e. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2024;18:911 – 919
195. Martens TW , Willis HJ, Bergens tal RM, Kruger 
DF, Karsliog lu-French E, Steenk amp DW . A rando- 
miz ed controlled trial using continuous glucose 
monitoring to guide f ood choices and diabet es 
S212 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
self -care in people with type 2 diabetes not taking 
insulin. Diabetes Technol Ther 2025;27:261 – 270
196. Batt elino T , Lalic N, Hussain S, et al. The use 
of continuous glucose monitoring in people living 
with obesity , intermediat e hyp ergly cemia or type 2 
diabet es. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2025;223:112111
197. Aronson R, Brown RE, Chu L, et al. Impact 
of flash glucose monitoring in people with type 2 
diabete s inadequat ely controlled with non- 
insulin antihyper glycaemic thera py (IMMEDIATE): a 
ra ndomiz ed contr olled trial. Diabetes Obes Metab 
2023;25:1024 – 1031
198. Moon SJ, Kim K-S, Lee WJ, Lee MY , Vigersky 
R, P ark C- Y . Efficacy of intermit ten t short -te rm 
use of a re al-time continuous glucose monitoring 
sy st em in non-insulin-treat ed patients with type 2 
diabet es: a randomiz ed controlle d trial. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2023;25:110 – 120
199. Martens T , Beck RW , Bailey R, et al.; 
MOBILE Study Gro up. Eff ect of continuous 
glucose monitoring on glycemic control in patients 
with type 2 diabete s treat ed with basal insulin: a 
ra ndomiz ed clinical trial. JAMA 2021;325:2262 – 2272
200. Agarwal S, Var ghese RT , Savian R, Low 
Wang CC, Galindo RJ. Moving beyond glyca ted 
hemoglobin to glucose patt erns: newer indications 
f or continuous glucose monitor use. Endocr Pract 
2025;31:1046 – 1053
201. van Dijk P , Bouma A, Landman GW , et al. 
Hypogly cemia in frail elderly patients with type 2 
diabete s mellitus treat ed with sulf onylur ea. J 
Diabet es Sci Technol 2017;11:438 – 439
202. Tamborlane WV , Beck RW , Bode BW , et al.; 
Juvenile Diabetes R esearch Foundation Continuous 
Glucose Monitoring Study Gr oup. Continuous 
glucose monitoring and int ensive treatment of type 1 
diabet es. N Engl J Med 2008;359:1464 – 1476
203. Hansen KW , Bibby BM. The frequency of 
int ermitt ently scanned glucose and diurnal variation 
of glycemic metrics. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2022;16: 
1461 – 1465
204. Urak ami T , Y oshida K, Kuwabara R, et al. 
Fr equent scanning using flash glucose monitoring 
contribut es to bett er gly cemic contr ol in children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes. J Diabetes 
Inves tig 2022;13:185 – 190
205. Laff el LM, Kanapka LG, Beck RW , et al.; 
CGM Intervention in Teens and Y oung Adults with 
T1D (CITY) Study Group. Eff ect of continuous glucose 
monitoring on glycemic control in adolescents and 
youn g adults with type 1 diabetes: a ran domiz ed 
clinical trial. JAMA 2020;323:2388 – 2396
206. New JP , Ajjan R, Pf eiff er AFH, Freckmann G. 
Continuous glucose monitoring in people with 
diabete s: the randomiz ed controlled Glucose 
Level Awareness in Diabetes Study (GLADIS). 
Diabet Med 2015;32:609 – 617
207. Gubitosi-Klug RA, Braff ett BH, Bebu I, et al. 
Continuous glucose monitoring in adults with type 1 
diabet es with 35 year s durat ion from the DCCT /EDIC 
st udy . Diabetes Car e 2022;45:659 – 665
208. Teo E, Hassan N, Tam W , Koh S. Eff ectiveness 
of continuous glucose monitoring in maintaining 
glyca emic control among people with type 1 
diabet es mellitus: a sys t ematic review of randomised 
control led trials and meta-analysis. Diabetologia 
2022;65:604 – 619
209. Seidu S, Kunutsor SK, Ajjan RA, Choudhary 
P . Efficacy and saf ety of continuous glucose 
monitoring and intermit tently scanned continuous 
glucose monitoring in patients with type 2 diabete s: a 
sys tema tic rev iew and meta-analysis of interventional 
evidence. Diabetes Care 2024;47:169-179
210. Phillip M, Nimri R, Bergens tal RM, et al. 
Consensus recomme ndations f or the use of 
automated insulin delivery technologies in clinical 
practice. Endocr R ev 2023;44:254 – 280
211. Brown SA, Beck RW , Raghinaru D, et al.; 
iDCL T rial R esearch Gr oup. Glycemic outcomes of 
use of CLC vers us PLGS in type 1 diabetes : a 
randomiz ed controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2020; 
43:1822 – 1828
212. P asquel FJ, Davis GM, Huffman DM, et al.; 
Omnipod 5 SECURE-T2D Consortium. Automated 
insulin delivery in adults with type 2 diabete s: a 
nonrandomiz ed clinical trial. JAMA Netw Open 
2025;8:e2459348
213. Bharg ava A, Bergens tal RM, Warren ML, et al.; 
IMPACT2D Study Group. Saf ety and eff ectiveness of 
MiniMedTM 780G advanced hybrid closed-loop 
insulin intensification in adults with insulin-requiring 
type 2 diabetes. Diabete s Technol Ther 2025;27: 
366 – 375
214. Davis GM, Pe ter s AL, Bode BW , et al. Saf ety 
and efficacy of the Omnipod 5 automated insulin 
delivery sy st em in adults with type 2 diabetes : 
from injections to hybrid closed-loop therapy . 
Diabetes Care 2023;46:742 – 750
215. Kudva YC, Raghinaru D, Lum JW , et al.; 2IQP 
Study Group. A randomiz ed trial of automated 
insulin delivery in type 2 diabetes . N Engl J Med 
2025;392:1801 – 1812
216. Valentine V , Newswanger B, Pres trelski S, 
Andre AD, Garibaldi M. Human factors usability and 
validation studies of a glucagon autoinjector in a 
simulated severe hy poglycemia rescu e situation. 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:522 – 530
217. Settles JA, Gerety GF, Spaepen E, Suico JG, 
Child CJ. Nasal glucagon delivery is more successful 
than injectable delivery: a simulated severe 
hypogly cemia rescue. Endocr Pract 2020;26:407 – 415
218. Herges JR, Galindo RJ, Neumiller JJ, Heien HC, 
Umpierrez GE, McCoy RG. Glucagon prescribing and 
costs among U.S. adults with diabetes, 2011-2021. 
Diabetes Car e 2023;46:620 – 627
219. Kahn PA, Liu S, McCoy R, Gabbay RA, Lipska K. 
Glucagon use by U .S. adults with type 1 and type 2 
diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2021;35:107882
220. Benning TJ, Heien HC, Herges JR, Creo AL, 
Al Nofal A, McCoy RG. Glucagon fill rat es and cost 
among children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes in the United Stat es, 2011 – 2021. 
Diabetes Re s Clin Pra ct 2023;206:111026
221. Riddle MC, Herman WH. The cost of 
diabetes care-an elephant in the room. Diabetes 
Care 2018;41:929 – 932
222. Merative. Redbook (electro nic version). 
Accessed 15 July 2025. Available fro m htt ps:// 
www .micromede xsolutions.com
223. Data.Medicaid.gov . NADAC (National Avera ge 
Drug Acquisition Cost). Accessed 15 July 2025. Available 
from https://healthdat a.gov/dataset/NADAC-National- 
Average-Drug-Acquisition-Cos t -2024/3tha-57c6/about 
_data
224. Kang H, Lobo JM, Kim S, Sohn M-W . Cos t - 
relat ed medication non-adhere nce among U. S. 
adults with diabetes. Diabet es Res Clin Pract 
2018;143:24 – 33
225. P atel MR, Piett e JD, R esnicow K, Kowalski- 
Dobson T , Heisler M. Social determ inants of health, 
cost -relat ed nonadherence, and cos t -reducing 
behavior s among adults with diabet es: findings from 
the National Health Interview Survey . Med Care 
2016;54:796 – 803
226. Center s f or Medicar e & Medicaid Services. P art 
D Senior Savings Model. Accessed 25 August 2025. 
Available from https://www .cms.gov/priorities / 
innovation/innovation-models/part -d-savings-model
227. Baig KA, Fry CE, Buntin MB, Power s AC, 
Dusetzina SB. Insulin out -of -pock et spending caps 
and employer -sponsored insuran ce: changes in 
out -of -pock et and total costs f or insulin and 
healthcare. Health Serv Res 2025:e14656
228. American Diabetes Association. Stat e Insulin 
Copay Caps. Accessed 25 Augus t 2025. Available 
from https://diabet es.org /tools-resour ces/aff ordable 
-insulin/s t ate-insulin-copa y -caps
229. Suran M. All 3 major insulin manufacturer s are 
cutting their prices-here’ s what the news means f or 
patients with diabetes. JAMA 2023;329:1337 – 1339
230. Herges JR, Neumiller JJ, McCoy RG. Easing 
the financial burden of diabetes management: a 
guide f or patients and primary care clinicians. 
Clin Diabetes 2021;39:427 – 436
231. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. FDA Drug 
Shortages. Accessed 17 August 2025. Available 
from https://dps. f da.gov/drugshortages
232. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. Drug 
Compounding and Drug Shortages. Accessed 
25 August 2025. Available from https://www .f da 
.gov/drugs/human -drug-compounding /drug- 
compounding-and-drug-shortages
233. Ashraf AR, Mack ey TK, Schmidt J, et al. 
Saf ety and risk assessment of no-pre scription 
online semaglutide purc hases. JAMA Netw Open 
2024;7:e2428280
234. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. FDA alerts 
health care provider s, compounders and patients of 
dosing error s associated with compounded injectable 
semaglutide products . Accessed 25 Augus t 2025. 
Available from https:// www .f da.gov/drugs/human 
-drug-compounding /f da-alerts-health-care -providers 
-compounders-and-patients-dosing-err ors-associat ed 
-compounded
235. Lambson JE, Fleg al SC, Johnson AR. Admin- 
istr ation error s of compounded semaglutide report ed 
to a poison control center -case series. J Am Pharm 
Assoc (2003) 2023;63:1643 – 1645
236. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. FDA 
warns consumers not to use counterf eit Oz empic 
(semaglutide) f ound in U.S. drug supply chain. 
Accessed 25 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www .f da. gov/drugs/drug-saf ety -and-availability/ 
f da-warns-consumers-no t -use-counterf eit -oz empic 
-semaglutide-f ound-us-drug-supply -chain
237. Neumiller JJ, Bajaj M, Bannuru RR, et al. 
Compounded GLP -1 and dual GIP /GLP -1 receptor 
agonists: a st atement from the American Diabetes 
Association. Diabetes Car e 2025;48:177 – 181
238. Whitley HP , T rujillo JM, Neumiller JJ. Special 
report: potential str ategie s f or address ing GLP -1 
and dual GLP -1/GIP R eceptor agonist shortages. 
Clin Diabetes 2023;41:467 – 473
239. Urva S, Coskun T , Loghin C, et al. The novel 
dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
and glucagon-lik e peptide-1 (GLP -1) receptor agonist 
tirz epatide tra nsiently delays g astric emptying 
similarly to selective long-acting GLP -1 receptor 
agonists. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:1886 – 1891
240. Sk elley JW , Swearengin K, Y ork AL, Glover LH. 
The impact of tirz epatide and glucagon-lik e peptide 1 
receptor agonists on oral hormonal contraception. J 
Am Pharm Assoc (2003) 2024;64:204 – 211.e4 e204
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S213 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
241. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
f or Biotechnology Inf ormation. ClinicalT rials.gov . A 
Study of the Eff ect of Tirz epatide on How the Body 
Handles Birth Control Pills in Healthy Female 
P articipants (NCT04172987). Accessed 12 June 
2024. Available from https:// clinicaltrials.gov / 
study/NCT04172987
242. U.S. Food & Drug Administr ation. Tirz epatide 
prescribing inf ormation. Accessed 25 Augus t 2025. 
Available from https: //www .accessdata. f da.go v/ 
drugsatf da_docs/label/2022/215866s000lbl.pdf
243. Chang L-S, Barroso-So usa R, T olaney SM, 
Hodi FS, Kaiser UB, Min L. Endocrine toxicity of cancer 
immunotherapy tar geting immune checkpoints. 
Endocr Rev 2019;40:17 – 65
244. Zhou L, Yang S, Li Y , Xu e C, Wan R. A 
comprehensive revie w of immune checkpoint 
inhibitor -r elated diabetes mellitus: incidence, clinical 
f eatures, management, and prog nosis. Front Immunol  
2024;15:1448728
245. Barroso-Sousa R, Barry WT , Garrido-Castr o 
AC, et al. Incidence of endocrine dysfunction 
f ollowing the use of diff erent immune checkpoint 
inhibitor regimens: a sy st ematic review and 
meta-analysis. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:173 – 182
246. Liu J, Zhou H, Zhang Y , et al. R eporting of 
immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy -associat ed 
diabetes, 2015 – 2019. Diabetes Care 2020;43: 
e79 – e80
247. Mulla K, Farag S, Moore B, et al. 
Hypergly caemia f ollowing immune checkpoint 
inhibitor therap y -Incidence, aetiology and assessment. 
Diabet Med 2023;40:e15053
248. Byun DJ, Brauns tein R, Flynn J, et al. 
Immune checkpoint inhibitor -associat ed diabetes: a 
single-institution experience. Diabet es Care 2020;43: 
3106 – 3109
249. Schneider BJ, Naidoo J, Santomasso BD, et 
al. Management of immune-relat ed adver se 
events in patients treat ed with immune checkpoint 
inhibitor thera py: ASCO guideline update. J Clin Oncol 
2021;39:4073 – 4126
250. Goncalves MD, Hopkins BD, Cantley LC. 
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, growth disorder s, 
and cancer . N Engl J Med 2018;379:2052 – 2062
251. André F, Ciruelos E, Rubovszky G, et al.; 
SOLAR-1 Study Gro up. Alpelisib f or PIK3CA- 
mutat ed, hormone r eceptor -positive advanced 
breas t cancer . N Engl J Med 2019;380:1929 – 1940
252. André F, Ciruelos EM, Juric D, et al. Alpelisib 
plus fulvestr ant f or PIK3CA-mutat ed, hormone 
receptor -positive, human epidermal growth factor 
receptor -2-negative advanced breas t cancer: final 
overall survival res ults fro m SOLAR-1. Ann Oncol 
2021;32:208 – 217
253. Rugo HS, André F, Yamashita T , et al. Time 
course and management of k ey adverse events 
during the randomiz ed phase III SOLAR-1 study of 
PI3K inhibitor alpelisib plus fulvestr ant in patients 
with HR-positive advanced brea st cancer . Ann 
Oncol 2020;31:1001 – 1010
254. Jhaveri KL, Im S-A, Saura C, et al. Overall 
survival with inavol isib in PIK3CA-muta ted advanced 
breas t cancer . N Engl J Med 2025;393:151 – 161
255. Liu D, Weintraub MA, Garcia C, et al. 
Charact erizatio n, management, and risk factor s 
of hyper glyce mia during PI3K or AKT inhibitor 
treatment. Cancer Med 2022;11:1796 – 1804
256. Gallagher EJ, Moore H, Lacouture ME, et al. 
Managing hyper glycemia and ra sh associat ed with 
alpelisib: expert consensus reco mmendations using 
the Delphi technique. NPJ Breas t Cancer 2024;10:12
257. Ihle NT , Lemos R, Schwartz D, et al. Per oxisome 
prolif erator -activated receptor gamma agonist 
pioglitaz one prevents the hyp ergly cemia caused by 
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway inhibition by 
PX -866 without aff ecting antitumor activity . Mol 
Cancer Ther 2009;8:94 – 100
258. Borrego MR, Lu Y -S, Rey es-Cosmelli F, et al. 
SGLT2 inhibition improves PI3Kα inhibitor - 
induced hyper glycemia: findings from precl inical 
animal models and from patients in the BYLieve 
and SOLAR-1 trials. Br east Cancer Re s T reat 
2024;208:111 – 121
259. Goncalves MD, Farooki A. Management of 
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitor -associat ed 
hyper gly cemia. Integr Cancer Ther 2022;21: 
15347354211073163
260. Cheung Y -MM, McDonnell M, Hamnvik O-PR. 
A tar geted approach to phosphoinositide-3-kinase/ 
Akt/mammalian ta rget of ra pamy cin-induced 
hyper glycemia. Curr Pro bl Cancer 2022;46:100776
261. Khan KH, W ong M, Rihawi K, et al. 
Hypergly cemia and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/ 
prot ein kinase b/mammalian t arget of ra pamy cin 
(PI3K/AKT /mTOR) inhibitor s in phase I trials: 
incidence, predictive factors, and management. 
Oncologist 2016;21:855 – 860
262. Busaidy NL, Farooki A, Dowlati A, et al. 
Management of metabolic eff ects associated 
with anticancer agents tar geting the PI3K-Akt - 
mTOR pathway . J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2919 – 2928
263. Nowak KM, Rdzanek -Pikus M, Romanowsk a- 
Próchnick a K, Nowak owska-Pł aza A, P apier ska L. High 
prevalence of st eroid-induced glucose intoler ance 
with normal fasting glycaemia during low -dose 
glucocorticoid therapy: an oral glucose tolerance 
tes t screening study . Rheumatology (Oxf or d) 
2021;60:2842 – 2851
264. Kulkarni S, Durham H, Glover L, et al. Metabolic 
adverse events associated with sys temic corticost eroid 
therapy -a sys temat ic rev iew and meta -analysis. BMJ 
Open 2022;12:e061476
265. Per ez A, Jansen-Chaparr o S, Saigi I, Bernal-Lopez 
MR, Miñambres I, Gomez-Huelgas R. Glucocorticoid- 
induced hyper glyce mia. J Diabetes 2014;6:9 – 20
266. Elena C, Chiar a M, Angelica B, et al. 
Hypergly cemia and diabetes induced by glucocorticoids 
in nondiabetic and diabetic patients: r evision of 
liter ature and personal considerations. Curr Pharm 
Biotechnol 2018;19:1210 – 1220
267. Burt MG, Roberts GW , Aguilar -Loz a NR, 
Frith P , Stranks SN. Continuous monitoring of 
circadian glycemic patt erns in patients receiving 
prednisolone f or COPD. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2011;96:1789 – 1796
268. Zhang F, Kar am JG. Glycem ic profile of 
intra venous dex amethasone-induced hyper glycemia 
using continuous glucose monitoring. Am J Case Rep 
2021;22:e930733
269. Wallace MD, Metzger NL. Optimizing the 
treatment of st eroid-induced hype rgly cemia. Ann 
Pharmacother 2018;52:86 – 90
270. Limbachia V , Nunney I, P age DJ, et al. The 
eff ect of diff ere nt types of oral or intra venous 
corticost eroids on capillary blood glucose levels 
in hospitaliz ed inpatients with and without 
diabetes. Clin Ther 2024;46:e59 – e63
271. Limbachia V , Nunney I, P age DJ, et al. 
Diff ere ntial eff ects of oral versus intra venous 
hy drocortisone and dex amethasone on capillary 
blood glucose levels in adult inpatients - a single 
centre stu dy . Clin Med (Lond) 2024;24:100249
272. Roberts A, James J, Dhatariya K, Joint British 
Diabetes Societies (JBDS) f or Inpatient Care. 
Management of hyper glyca emia and st eroid 
(glucocorticoid) therap y: a guideline from the 
Joint British Diabetes Societies (JBDS) f or Inpatient 
Care grou p. Diabet Med 2018;35:1011 – 1017
273. Gerar ds MC, de Maar JS, St eenbruggen TG, 
Hoekstr a JBL, V riesendorp TM, Gerdes VEA. Add-on 
treatment with intermediat e-acting insulin versus 
sliding-scale insulin f or patients with type 2 diabetes 
or insulin resis tance during cycl ic glucocorticoid- 
containing antineoplastic chemotherapy: a 
randomiz ed crossover s tudy . Diabetes Obes Met ab 
2016;18:1041 – 1044
274. Burt MG, Drak e SM, Aguilar -Lo za NR, Est erman 
A, Stranks SN, Roberts GW . Efficacy of a basal bolus 
insulin protocol to treat pred nisolone-induced 
hyper glyca emia in hospitalised patients. Intern 
Med J 2015;45:261 – 266
275. Joharatnam-Hog an N, Chambers P , Dhatariya 
K, Board R; Joint British Diabetes Society f or Inpatient 
Care (JBDS), UK Chemotherapy Board (UKCB) . A 
guideline f or the outpatient management of 
glycaemic contr ol in people with cancer . Diabet 
Med 2022;39:e14636
276. T ürk T , Pietruck F, Dolff S, et al. Repaglinide 
in the management of new -onset diabet es mellitus 
after renal tr ansplantation. Am J T ransplant 2006;6: 
842 – 846
277. Ode KL, Ballman M, Batt ezzati A, et al. 
ISPAD clinical pra ctice consensus guidelines 2022: 
management of cystic fibrosis-r elated diabetes in 
children and adolescents. Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23: 
1212 – 1228
278. Kurnik owski A, Nordheim E, Schwaiger E, et 
al. Crit eria f or prediabet es and post transplant 
diabetes mellitus after kidney tran splantation: a 
2-year diagnostic accuracy stu dy of participants 
from a randomiz ed controlled trial. Am J T rans plant 
2022;22:2880 – 2891
279. Sharif A, Chakk era H, de V ries APJ, et al. 
International consensus on post -tr ansplantation 
diabetes mellitus. Nephrol Dial T ran splant 2024;39: 
531 – 549
280. Kuningas K, Driscoll J, Mair R, et al. 
Comparing glycaemic benefits of active versus 
passive lif es tyle int ervention in kidney allograft 
recipients: a randomiz ed controlled trial. 
T ransplant ation 2020;104:1491 – 1499
281. Hecking M, Haidinger M, Döller D, et al. 
Early basal insulin therap y decr eases new -onset 
diabetes afte r renal transplant ation. J Am Soc 
Nephrol 2012;23:739 – 749
282. Schwaiger E, Kre nn S, Kurnik owski A, et al. 
Early pos toperative basal insulin therapy versus 
st andar d of care f or the pr evention of diabetes mellitus 
after kidney transplant ation: a multicenter randomiz ed 
trial. J Am Soc Nephrol 2021;32:2083 – 2098
283. Chandra A, Rao N, Pooniya V , Singh A. 
Hypoglycemia with insulin in post -transplant diabetes 
mellitus. T ranspl Immunol 2023;78:101833
284. T uerk TR, Bandur S, Nuernberger J, et al. 
Gliquidone therapy of new -onset diabetes 
mellitus after kidney transplant ation. Clin Nephrol 
2008;70:26 – 32
285. Lo C, T oyama T , Oshima M, et al. Glucose- 
lowering agents f or tre ating pre-e xisting and 
new -onset diabetes in kidney tr ansplant recipients. 
Cochrane Database Sys t Rev 2020;8:CD009966
286. Lawrence SE, Chandran MM, P ark JM, et al. 
Sweet and simple as sy rup: a review and guidance 
f or use of novel antihyper glycemic agents f or 
S214 Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic T r eatment                                                  Diabetes Care V olume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
post -tran splant diabetes mellitus and type 2 
diabetes mellitus aft er kidney transplant ation. 
Clin T ransplant 2023;37:e14922
287. Munoz Pe na JM, Cusi K. Pos ttr ansplant 
diabetes mellitus: rec ent developments in 
pharmacological management of hyper glycemia. 
J Clin Endocrinol Met ab 2023;109:e1 – e11
288. Ram E, Lavee J, Tenenbaum A, et al. 
Metf ormin therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus 
is associated with a reduc ed risk of vasculopathy and 
cardiov ascular mortality after heart tr ansplantation. 
Car diovasc Diabetol 2019;18:118
289. Vest LS, Koraish y FM, Zhang Z, et al. 
Metf ormin use in the firs t ye ar afte r kidney 
tran splant, correlat es, and associat ed outcomes 
in diabetic transplan t recip ients: a re trospective 
analysis of integr ated regis try and pharmacy 
claims data. Clin T ransplant 2018;32:e13302
290. Abdelaziz TS, Ali AY , Fatth y M. Efficacy and 
saf ety of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors in kidney 
tran splant recipients with post -trans plant diabetes 
mellitus (PTDM)- a sy st ematic review and meta- 
analysis. Curr Diabetes R ev 2020;16:580 – 585
291. Thanga velu T , Lyde n E, Shivaswamy V . A 
retr ospective study of glucagon-lik e peptide 1 
r eceptor agonis ts f or the management of diabetes 
after transplant ation. Diabetes Ther 2020;11: 
987 – 994
292. Kukla A, Hill J, Merzk ani M, et al. The use of 
GLP1R agonis ts f or the treatment of type 2 
diabet es in kidney tr ansplant recipients. T ransplant 
Direc t 2020;6:e524
293. Singh P , Pe savento TE, Washburn K, Walsh 
D, Meng S. Large st single-centre experience of 
dulaglutide f or management of diabetes mellitus 
in solid org an tran splant recipients. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2019;21:1061 – 1065
294. Liou J-H, Liu Y -M, Chen C-H. Management of 
diabete s mellitus with glucagonlik e peptide-1 agonis t 
liraglu tide in renal transplant recipients: a retr ospective 
stu dy . T ransplant Proc 2018;50:2502 – 2505
295. Vigar a LA, Villanego F, Or ellana C, et al. 
Eff ectiveness and saf ety of glucagon-lik e peptide-1 
rec eptor agonist in a cohort of kidney transplant 
rec ipients. Clin T ra nsplant 2022;36:e14633
296. Sweiss H, Hall R, Zeilmann D, et al. Single- 
cent er evaluation of saf ety & efficacy of glucagon-lik e 
peptide-1 receptor agonists in solid org an 
tr ansplantation. Prog T rans plant 2022;32:357 – 362
297. Zelada H, Campana M, Kawai K, et al. 
Efficacy , tolerability , and saf ety of glucagon-lik e 
peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP1-RA) in kidney 
transplant recipients with diabetes. Clin T ran splant 
2025;39:e70144
298. Kim HS, Lee J, Jung CH, P ark J- Y , Lee WJ. 
Dulaglutide as an eff ective replacement f or prandi al 
insulin in kidney transplant rec ipients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: a retr ospective review . Diabetes 
Metab J 2021;45:948 – 953
299. Orandi BJ, Chen Y , Li Y , et al. GLP -1 receptor 
agonists in kidney transplant re cipients with pr e- 
exis ting diabetes: a retr ospective cohort study . 
Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2025;13:374 – 383
300. Lin L-C, Chen J- Y , Huang TT -M, W u V -C. 
Association of glucagon-lik e peptide-1 receptor 
agonists with car diovascular and kidney outcomes 
in type 2 diabetic kidney transplant recipients. 
Cardiovasc Diabetol 2025;24:87
301. Dik er Cohen T , Rudman Y , T urjeman A, et al. 
Glucagon-lik e peptide 1 receptor agonists and renal 
outcomes in kidney transplant recipients with 
diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Metab 2025;51:101624
302. Dotan I, Rudman Y , T urjeman A, et al. 
Glucagon-lik e peptide 1 receptor agonists and 
cardiovascular outcomes in solid org an transplant 
recipients with diabetes mellitus. T ransplant ation 
2024;108:e121 – e128
303. Sammour Y , Nassif M, Magwire M, et al. 
Eff ects of GLP -1 receptor agonists and SGLT -2 
inhibitors in heart transplant patients with type 2 
diabetes: initial report from a cardiomet abolic 
center of ex cellence. J Heart Lung T ransplant 
2021;40:426 – 429
304. Lim J-H, Kwon S, Jeon Y , et al. The efficacy and 
saf ety of SGLT2 inhibitor in diabetic kidney transplant 
recipients. T ran splantation 2022;106:e404 – e412
305. Schwaiger E, Burghart L, Signorini L, et al. 
Empagliflozin in post transplant ation diabete s 
mellitus: a pr ospective, interventional pilot study 
on glucose metabolism, fluid volume, and patient 
saf ety . Am J T ransplant 2019;19:907 – 919
306. Halden TAS, Kvitne KE, Midtvedt K, et al. 
Efficacy and saf ety of empagliflozin in ren al 
transplant recipients with post transplant diabet es 
mellitus. Diabetes Care 2019;42:1067 – 1074
307. Mahling M, Schork A, Nadalin S, Fritsche A, 
Heyne N, Guthoff M. Sodium-glucose cotransport er 2 
(SGLT2) inhibition in kidney transplant recipients 
with diabetes mellitus. Kidney Blood Pre ss R es 
2019;44:984 – 992
308. Shah M, Virani Z, Rajput P , Shah B. Efficacy 
and saf ety of canagliflozin in kidney transplant 
patients. Indian J Nephr ol 2019;29:278 – 281
309. Sánchez Fructuoso AI, Bedia Raba A, Banegas 
Deras E, et al. Sodium-glucose cotransport er -2 
inhibitor therapy in kidney transplant patients 
with type 2 or post -transplant diabetes: an 
observational multicentr e study . Clin Kidney J 
2023;16:1022 – 1034
310. Greeley SAW , Polak M, Njølst ad PR, et al. 
ISPAD clinical practice consensus guidelines 2022: 
the diagnosis and management of monogenic 
diabetes in children and adolescents. P ediatr 
Diabetes 2022;23:1188 – 1211
311. Christ ensen AS, Hædersdal S, Støy J, et al. 
Efficacy and saf ety of glimepiride with or without 
linagliptin treatment in patients with HNF1A 
diabetes (maturity -onset diabetes of the young 
type 3): a ran domiz ed, double-blinded, placebo- 
controlled, crossover trial (GLIMLINA). Diabetes 
Care 2020;43:2025 – 2033
312. Umpierrez GE, Davis GM, ElSay ed NA, et al. 
Hypergly cemic crises in adults with diabet es: a 
consensus report. Diabetes Car e 2024;47:1257 – 1275
313. W olfsdorf JI, Ratner RE. SGLT inhibitors f or 
type 1 diabetes: proceed with extr eme caution. 
Diabetes Care 2019;42:991 – 993
314. Colacci M, Fr alick J, Oduta yo A, Fr alick M. 
Sodium-glucose cotransport er -2 inhibitors and 
risk of diabetic k etoacidosis among adults with 
type 2 diabetes : a sys tematic review and meta- 
analysis. Can J Diabetes 2022;46:10 – 15.e2
315. Bonora BM, Avog aro A, Fadini GP . Sodium- 
glucose co-transpo rter -2 inhibitor s and diabetic 
k etoacidosis: an updated review of the liter ature. 
Diabetes Obes Metab 2018;20:25 – 33
316. Blau JE, Tella SH, Taylor SI, Rother KI. 
Ketoacidosis associated with SGLT2 inhibitor 
treatment: analysis of FAERS data. Diabetes 
Metab Res R ev 2017;33:10.1002/dmrr .2924
317. T sapas A, Karagiannis T , Kak otrichi P , et al. 
Comparative efficacy of glucose-lowering medications 
on body weight and blood pressur e in patients 
with type 2 diabetes: a sys t ematic review and 
network met a-analysis. Diabetes Obes Met ab 
2021;23:2116 – 2124
318. Davies MJ, D’Alessio DA, Fradkin J, et al. 
Management of hyper glycemia in type 2 diabetes, 
2018. A consensus report by the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) and the Europ ean Association f or 
the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Car e 2018; 
41:2669 – 2701
diabet esjournals.org /car e                                                                                                                      Pharmacologic Approaches to Glyc emic T reatment S215 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S183/848878/dc26s009.pdf by guest on 14 May 2026
