6. Glycemic Targets: Standardsof
NuhaA.ElSayed,GraziaAleppo,
— VanitaR.Aroda,RaveendharaR.Bannuru,
CareinDiabetes 2023
FlorenceM.Brown,DennisBruemmer,
BillyS.Collins,MarisaE.Hilliard,
DiabetesCare 2023;46(Suppl. 1):S97–S110 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc23-S006 DianaIsaacs,EricL.Johnson,
ScottKahan,KamleshKhunti,JoseLeon,
SarahK.Lyons,MaryLouPerry,
PriyaPrahalad,RichardE.Pratley,
JaneJeffrieSeley,RobertC.Stanton,and
RobertA.Gabbay,onbehalfofthe
AmericanDiabetesAssociation
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” in-
cludes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to
provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guide-
lines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional
PracticeCommittee,amultidisciplinaryexpertcommittee,areresponsibleforup-
datingtheStandardsofCareannually,ormorefrequentlyaswarranted.Forade-
tailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the
evidence-grading systemfor ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full
list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction
andMethodology.ReaderswhowishtocommentontheStandardsofCareare
invitedtodosoatprofessional.diabetes.org/SOC.
ASSESSMENTOFGLYCEMICCONTROL
Glycemic control is assessed by the A1C measurement, continuous glucose moni-
toring (CGM) using time in range (TIR) and/or glucose management indicator
(GMI),andbloodglucosemonitoring(BGM).A1Cisthemetricusedtodateinclini-
cal trials demonstrating the benefits of improved glycemic control. Individual glu-
cosemonitoring(discussedindetailinSection7,“DiabetesTechnology”)isauseful
tool for diabetes self-management, which includes meals, physical activity, and
medicationadjustment,particularlyinindividualstakinginsulin.CGMservesanin-
creasingly important role in the management of the effectiveness and safety of
treatmentinmanypeoplewithtype1diabetesandinselectedpeoplewithtype2
diabetes.Individualsonavarietyof insulintreatmentplanscan benefitfromCGM
withimprovedglucosecontrol,decreasedhypoglycemia,andenhancedself-efficacy
(Section7,“DiabetesTechnology”)(1).
GlycemicAssessment
Recommendations
6.1 Assess glycemic status(A1Corotherglycemicmeasurement such astime Disclosure information for each author is
in range or glucose management indicator) at least two times a year in availableathttps://doi.org/10.2337/dc23-SDIS.
patientswhoaremeetingtreatmentgoals(andwhohavestableglycemic Suggestedcitation:ElSayedNA,AleppoG,Aroda
control).E VR, et al., American Diabetes Association. 6.
6.2 Assessglycemicstatusatleastquarterlyandasneededinpatientswhose
Glycemictargets:StandardsofCareinDiabetes—
2023.DiabetesCare2023;46(Suppl.1):S97–S110
therapy has recently changed and/or who are not meeting glycemic
goals.E © 2022 by the American Diabetes Association.
Readers may use this article as long as the
work is properly cited, the use is educational
and not for profit, and the work is not altered.
A1Creflectsaverageglycemiaoverapproximately3months.Theperformanceofthe
More information is available at https://www.
test is generally excellent for National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.
6.GLYCEMICTARGETS
DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023 S97S98 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
(NGSP)-certified assays (ngsp.org). The most assays in use in the U.S. are accu-
Table6.1—Estimatedaverageglucose
testistheprimarytoolforassessinggly- rate in individualswho are heterozygous
(eAG)
cemiccontrolandhasastrongpredictive for the most common variants (ngsp.
A1C(%) mg/dL* mmol/L
value for diabetes complications (2–4). org/interf.asp). Other measures of aver-
5 97(76–120) 5.4(4.2–6.7)
Thus, A1C testing should be performed age glycemia such as fructosamine and
routinely in all people with diabetes at 1,5-anhydroglucitol are available, but 6 126(100–152) 7.0(5.5–8.5)
initialassessmentandaspartofcontinu- their translation into average glucose 7 154(123–185) 8.6(6.8–10.3)
ing care. Measurement approximately levels and their prognostic significance
8 183(147–217) 10.2(8.1–12.1)
every3monthsdetermineswhetherpa- are not as clear as for A1C and CGM.
tients’glycemictargetshavebeenreached Though some variability in the relation- 9 212(170–249) 11.8(9.4–13.9)
andmaintained.A14-dayCGMassess- ship between average glucose levels 10 240(193–282) 13.4(10.7–15.7)
ment of TIR and GMI can serve as a and A1C exists among different individ- 11 269(217–314) 14.9(12.0–17.5)
surrogate for A1C for use in clinical uals,ingeneraltheassociationbetween
management (5–9). The frequency of mean glucose and A1C within an indi- 12 298(240–347) 16.5(13.3–19.3)
A1Ctestingshoulddependontheclin- vidualcorrelatesovertime(12). Datainparenthesesare95%CI.Acalcula-
ical situation, the treatment plan, and A1C does not provide a measure of tor forconvertingA1Cresults into eAG,in
the clinician’s judgment. The use of glycemic variability or hypoglycemia. For either mg/dL or mmol/L, is available at
professional.diabetes.org/eAG. *These esti-
point-of-care A1C testing or CGM- patientsprone to glycemic variability, es-
mates are based on ADAG data of (cid:1)2,700
derived TIR and GMI may provide an pecially people with type 1 diabetes or
glucose measurements over 3 months per
opportunity for more timely treatment type 2 diabetes with severe insulin defi- A1Cmeasurementin507adultswithtype1,
changesduringencountersbetweenpa- ciency,glycemiccontrolisbestevaluated type 2, or no diabetes. The correlation be-
tients and health care professionals. bythecombinationofresultsfromBGM/ tween A1C and average glucose was 0.92
People withtype2 diabetes withstable CGM and A1C. Discordant results be- (13,14).AdaptedfromNathanetal.(13).
glycemiawellwithintargetmaydowell tween BGM/CGM and A1C can be the
with A1C testing or other glucose as- result of the conditions outlined above
has considerable potential for optimizing
sessment only twice per year. Unstable or glycemic variability, with BGM miss-
theirglycemicmanagement(13).
orintensivelymanagedpatientsorpeople ingtheextremes.
not at goal with treatment adjustments
mayrequiretestingmorefrequently(every CorrelationBetweenBGMandA1C A1CDifferencesinEthnic
3 months with interim assessments as Table6.1showsthecorrelationbetween PopulationsandChildren
Inthe ADAGstudy,therewerenosignifi-
needed for safety) (10). CGM parameters A1Clevelsandmeanglucoselevelsbased
cant differences among racial and ethnic
can be tracked in the clinic or via tele- ontheinternationalA1C-DerivedAverage
groups in the regression lines between
healthtooptimizediabetesmanagement. Glucose (ADAG) study, which assessed
A1C and mean glucose, although the
the correlation between A1C and fre-
study was underpowered to detect a dif-
A1CLimitations quentBGMandCGMin507adults(83%
ference and there was a trend toward a
TheA1Ctestisanindirectmeasureofav- non-HispanicWhite)withtype1,type2,
difference between the African and Afri-
erageglycemiaand,assuch,issubjectto and no diabetes (13), and an empirical
canAmericanandthenon-HispanicWhite
limitations. As with any laboratory test, studyoftheaveragebloodglucoselevels
thereisvariabilityinthemeasurementof atpremeal,postmeal,andbedtimeasso- cohorts, with higher A1C values observed
A1C.AlthoughA1Cvariabilityisloweron ciated with specified A1C levels using in the African and African American co-
anintraindividualbasisthanthatofblood datafromtheADAGtrial(14).TheAmer- horts compared with non-Hispanic White
glucose measurements, clinicians should ican Diabetes Association (ADA) and the cohorts for a given mean glucose. Other
exercise judgment when using A1C as AmericanAssociationforClinicalChemis- studieshavealsodemonstratedhigherA1C
thesolebasisforassessingglycemiccon- tryhavedeterminedthatthecorrelation levelsinAfricanAmericanparticipantsthan
trol, particularly if the result is close to (r = 0.92) in the ADAG trial is strong inWhiteparticipantsatagivenmeanglu-
the threshold that might prompt a enoughtojustifyreportingboththeA1C coseconcentration(15,16).Incontrast,a
change inmedicationtherapy.Forexam- resultandtheestimatedaverageglucose recent report in Afro-Caribbean individu-
ple, conditions that affect red blood cell (eAG) result when a clinician orders the als found lower A1C relative to glucose
turnover (hemolytic and other anemias, A1C test. Clinicians should note that the values(17).Takentogether,A1Candglu-
glucose-6-phosphatedehydrogenasedefi- mean plasma glucose numbers in Table coseparametersareessentialfortheop-
ciency, recent blood transfusion, use of 6.1 are based on (cid:1)2,700 readings per timalassessmentofglycemicstatus.
drugs that stimulate erythropoiesis, end- A1CmeasurementintheADAGtrial.Ina A1C assays are available that do not
stage kidney disease, and pregnancy) report, mean glucose measured with demonstrate a statistically significantdif-
may result in discrepancies between the CGMversuscentrallaboratory–measured ference in individuals with hemoglobin
A1C result and the patient’s true mean A1Cin387participantsinthreerandom- variants. Other assays have statistically
glycemia(11).Hemoglobinvariantsmust ized trials demonstrated that A1C may significant interference, but the differ-
be considered, particularly when the underestimateoroverestimatemeanglu- ence is not clinically significant. Use of
A1C result does not correlate with the cose in individuals (12). Thus, as sug- anassaywithsuchstatisticallysignificant
patient’s CGM or BGM levels. However, gested, a patient’s BGM or CGM profile interference may explain a report thatdiabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S99
glycemictargets.Majorclinicaltrialsofin-
Table6.2—StandardizedCGMmetricsforclinicalcare
sulin-treatedpatientshaveincludedBGM
1.NumberofdaysCGMdeviceisworn(recommend14days)
as part of multifactorial interventions to
2.PercentageoftimeCGMdeviceisactive(recommend70% demonstrate the benefit of intensive gly-
ofdatafrom14days)
cemic control on diabetes complications
3.Meanglucose (33). BGM is thus an integral component
4.Glucosemanagementindicator of effective therapy of patients taking in-
sulin.Inrecentyears,CGMhasbecomea
5.Glycemicvariability(%CV)target#36%*
standard method for glucose monitoring
6.TAR:%ofreadingsandtime>250mg/dL(>13.9mmol/L) Level2hyperglycemia formostadultswithtype1diabetes(34).
7.TAR:%ofreadingsandtime181–250mg/dL(10.1–13.9mmol/L) Level1hyperglycemia Both approaches to glucose monitor-
8.TIR:%ofreadingsandtime70–180mg/dL(3.9–10.0mmol/L) Inrange ing allow patients to evaluate individ-
ual responses to therapy and assess
9.TBR:%ofreadingsandtime54–69mg/dL(3.0–3.8mmol/L) Level1hypoglycemia
whetherglycemictargetsarebeingsafely
10.TBR:%ofreadingsandtime<54mg/dL(<3.0mmol/L) Level2hypoglycemia achieved.The international consensus on
CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; CV, coefficient of variation; TAR, time above range; TIR provides guidance on standardized
TBR, time below range; TIR, time in range. *Some studies suggest that lower %CV targets CGM metrics (Table 6.2) and considera-
(<33%)provideadditionalprotectionagainsthypoglycemiaforthosereceivinginsulinorsul- tions for clinical interpretation and care
fonylureas.AdaptedfromBattelinoetal.(35). (35).To make these metrics more action-
able, standardized reports with visual
for any level of mean glycemia, African cues,suchastheambulatoryglucosepro-
visual cues, such as the ambula-
American individuals heterozygous for tory glucose profile, should be file (Fig 6.1), are recommended (35) and
the common hemoglobin variant HbS mayhelpthepatientandthehealthcare
consideredasastandardsummary
had lower A1C by about 0.3 percentage professional better interpret the data to
forallCGMdevices.E
points when compared with those with- guide treatment decisions (24,27). BGM
6.4 Timeinrangeisassociatedwith
out the trait (18,19). Another genetic andCGM canbe usefulto guide medical
the risk of microvascular com-
variant,X-linkedglucose-6-phosphatede- nutrition therapy and physical activity,
plications and can be used for
hydrogenase G202A, carried by 11% of preventhypoglycemia,andaidmedication
assessment of glycemic control.
AfricanAmericanindividuals,wasassoci-
management. While A1C is currently the
Additionally, time below range
ated with a decrease in A1C of about
primary measure to guide glucose man-
0.8% in hemizygous men and 0.7% in and time above range are use-
agement and a valuable risk marker for
homozygous women compared with fulparametersfortheevaluation
developing diabetes complications, the
thosewithoutthetrait(20). of the treatment plan (Table
CGMmetricsTIR(withtimebelowrange
AsmallstudycomparingA1CtoCGM 6.2).C
and time above range) and GMI provide
data in children with type 1 diabetes
the insightsfora more personalized dia-
foundahighlystatisticallysignificantcor-
CGMisrapidlyimprovingdiabetesman- betes management plan. The incorpora-
relation between A1C and mean blood
agement.Asstatedintherecommenda- tionofthesemetricsintoclinicalpractice
glucose, although the correlation (r =
0.7) was significantly lower than that in tions, time in range (TIR) is a useful is in evolution, and remote access to
the ADAG trial (21). Whether there are metric of glycemic control and glucose thesedatacanbecriticalfortelehealth.A
rapid optimization and harmonization of
clinically meaningful differences in how patterns,anditcorrelateswellwithA1C
A1C relates to average glucose in chil- in most studies (24–29). New data sup- CGM terminology and remote access is
occurringtomeetpatientandhealthcare
drenorindifferentethnicitiesisanarea portthepremisethatincreasedTIRcor-
professional needs (36–38).The patient’s
forfurtherstudy(15,22,23).Untilfurther relates with the risk of complications.
specific needs and goals should dictate
evidence is available, it seems prudent The studies supporting this assertion
to establish A1C goals in these popula- BGM frequency and timing and con-
arereviewedinmoredetailinSection7,
tionswithconsiderationofindividualized “DiabetesTechnology”;theyincludecross- siderationofCGMuse.Pleaserefer to
CGM, BGM, and A1C results. Limitations Section 7, “Diabetes Technology,” for
sectionaldataandcohortstudies(30–32)
in perfect alignment between glycemic a more complete discussion of the use
demonstrating TIR as an acceptable end
measurementsdo not interfere with the ofBGMandCGM.
point for clinical trials moving forward
usefulnessofBGM/CGMforinsulindose With the advent of new technology,
and that it can be used for assessment
adjustments. CGM has evolved rapidly in both accu-
ofglycemiccontrol.Additionally,timebe- racy and affordability. Assuch,manypa-
GlucoseAssessmentbyContinuous
lowrange(<70and<54mg/dL[3.9and
tients have these data available to assist
GlucoseMonitoring 3.0 mmol/L]) and time above range with self-management and their health
(>180 mg/dL [10.0 mmol/L]) are useful careprofessionals’assessmentofglycemic
Recommendations
parameters for insulin dose adjustments status. Reports can be generated from
6.3 Standardized, single-page glucose
andreevaluationofthetreatmentplan. CGM that will allow the health care
reports from continuous glucose
For many people with diabetes, glu- professional and person with diabetes
monitoring (CGM) devices with
cose monitoring is key for achieving to determine TIR, calculate GMI, andAGP Report: Continuous Glucose Monitoring
Time in Ranges Goals for Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Test Patient DOB: Jan 1, 1970
Goal: <5% 14 Days: August 8–August 21, 2021
Very High 20%
Time CGM Active: 100%
44%
Goal: <25%
250
High 24% Glucose Metrics
180 Average Glucose........................................... 175 mg/dL
Goal: <154 mg/dL
46%
mg/dL Target Goal: >70% Glucose Management Indicator (GMI)............... 7.5%
Goal: <7%
70 Low 5%
54 10%
Goal: <4%
Glucose Variability............................................ 45.5%
Very Low 5%
Goal: <36%
Goal: <1% Each 1% time in range = ~15 minutes
AGP is a summary of glucose values from the report period, with median (50%) and other percentiles shown as if they occurred in a single day.
350
mg/dL
95%
75%
250
50%
25%
180
Target
Range
5%
70
54
0
12am 3am 6am 9am 12pm 3pm 6pm 9pm 12am
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
180
70
12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
180
70
Ld/gm
Ld/gm
S100 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
1133
Figure6.1—Keypointsincludedinstandardambulatoryglucoseprofile(AGP)report.ReprintedfromHoltetal.(34).diabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S101
assess hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, and glycemic separation between the treat-
parallelgoalformanynonpreg-
glycemic variability. As discussed in a re- ment groups diminished and disap-
nant adults is time in range of
cent consensus document, a report for- >70% with time below range pearedduringfollow-up.
matted as shown in Fig. 6.1 can be <4% and time <54 mg/dL The Kumamoto Study (44) and UK
generated (35). Published data from two Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS)
<1%. For those with frailty or
retrospectivestudiessuggestastrongcor- (45,46) confirmed that intensive gly-
at high riskof hypoglycemia, a
relation between TIR and A1C, with a cemic control significantly decreased
target of >50% time in range
goal of 70% TIR aligning with an A1C of rates of microvascular complications
with <1% time below range
(cid:1)7% (8,26). Note the goals of therapy in people with short-duration type 2
is recommended. (See Fig. 6.1
next to each metric in Fig. 6.1 (e.g., low, diabetes. Long-term follow-up of the
andTable6.2.)B
<4%; very low, <1%) as values to guide UKPDS cohorts showed enduring ef-
6.6 On the basis of health care
changesintherapy. fectsofearlyglycemiccontrolonmost
professional judgment and pa-
microvascularcomplications(47).
tient preference, achievement
GLYCEMICGOALS Therefore, achieving A1C targets of
of lower A1C levels than the <7% (53 mmol/mol) has been shown
Forglycemicgoalsinolderadults,please
goal of 7% may be acceptable
refer to Section 13, “Older Adults.” For andeven beneficialifitcan be to reduce microvascular complications
of type 1 and type 2 diabetes when in-
glycemicgoalsinchildren,pleasereferto achieved safely without signifi-
Section 14, “Children and Adolescents.” stituted early in the course of disease
canthypoglycemiaorotherad-
For glycemic goals during pregnancy, (2,48). Findings from the DCCT (33) and
verseeffectsoftreatment.B
pleaserefertoSection15,“Management UKPDS(49) studies demonstrate a curvi-
6.7 Less stringent A1C goals (such
of Diabetes in Pregnancy.” Overall, re- linear relationship between A1C and mi-
as <8% [64 mmol/mol]) may
gardless of the population being served, crovascular complications. Such analyses
itiscriticalfortheglycemictargetsto be beappropriateforpatientswith suggest that, on a population level, the
woven into the overall person-centered limited life expectancy or where greatest number of complications will
strategy. For example, in a very young the harms of treatment are be averted by taking patients from very
child, safety and simplicity may outweigh
greaterthanthebenefits.Health
poor control to fair/good control.These
the need for glycemic stability in the care professionals should con- analysesalso suggestthatfurtherlower-
short run. Simplification may decrease sider deintensification of ther- ing of A1C from 7 to 6% (53 mmol/mol
parental anxiety and build trust and apy if appropriate to reduce to 42 mmol/mol) is associated with
confidence, which could support fur- the riskof hypoglycemia in pa- further reduction in the risk of micro-
ther strengthening of glycemic targets tients with inappropriate strin- vascular complications, although the
andself-efficacy.Inhealthyolderadults, gentA1Ctargets.B absolute risk reductions become much
there is noempiric needtoloosen con- 6.8 Reassessglycemictargetsbased smaller.Theimplicationofthesefindings
trol; however, less stringent A1C goals on the individualized criteria in is that there is no need to deintensify
may be appropriate for patients with Fig.6.2.E therapy for an individual with an A1C
limited life expectancy or where the 6.9 Setting a glycemic goal during between 6 and 7% in the setting of
harms of treatment are greater than consultationsislikelytoimprove low hypoglycemia risk with a long life
thebenefits(39,40). patientoutcomes.E expectancy.There are now newer agents
However,thehealthcareprofessional that do not cause hypoglycemia, making
needs to work with an individual and it possible to maintain glucose control
should consider adjusting targets for A1CandMicrovascularComplications without the risk of hypoglycemia (see
simplifying the treatment plan if this
Hyperglycemiadefinesdiabetes,andgly-
Section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches
cemiccontrolisfundamentaltodiabetes
changeisneededtoimprovesafetyand toGlycemicTreatment”).
management. The Diabetes Control and
medication-taking behavior. Setting Giventhesubstantiallyincreasedriskof
ComplicationsTrial(DCCT)(33),aprospec-
goals by face-to-face or remote consul- hypoglycemiaintype1diabetesandwith
tive randomized controlled trial of inten-
tations has been shown to be more ef- polypharmacyintype2diabetes,therisks
sive(meanA1Cabout7%[53mmol/mol])
fective than usual care for glycemic of lower glycemic targets may outweigh
versus standard (mean A1C about 9%
control in type 2 diabetes for fasting the potential benefits on microvascular
[75 mmol/mol]) glycemiccontrolinpeo-
plasma glucose and glycated hemoglo- ple with type 1 diabetes, showed defini- complications. Three landmark trials (Ac-
bin(41). tiontoControlCardiovascularRiskinDia-
tively that better glycemic control is
associated with 50–76% reductions in betes [ACCORD], Action in Diabetes and
Recommendations ratesofdevelopmentandprogression Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron
6.5a An A1C goal for many non- of microvascular (retinopathy, neurop- MRControlledEvaluation[ADVANCE],
pregnant adults of <7% (53 athy,anddiabetickidneydisease)com- andVeteransAffairsDiabetesTrial[VADT])
mmol/mol) without significant plications. Follow-upoftheDCCTcohorts were conducted to test the effects of
in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Inter- near normalization of blood glucose
hypoglycemiaisappropriate.A
ventions andComplications(EDIC)study on cardiovascularoutcomes in individ-
6.5b If using ambulatory glucose
profile/glucose managementin- (42,43) demonstrated persistence of uals with long-standing type 2 diabe-
these microvascular benefits over two tes and either known cardiovascular
dicator to assess glycemia, a
decades despite the fact that the disease (CVD) or high cardiovascularof nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI),
Approach to Individualization of Glycemic Targets
stroke, or cardiovascular death com-
Patient / Disease Features More stringent A1C 7% Less stringent paredwiththosepreviouslyrandomized
Risks potentially associated
tothestandardarm(54).Thebenefitof
with hypoglycemia and intensiveglycemiccontrolinthiscohort
other drug adverse effects
low high with type 1 diabetes has been shown
to persist for several decades (55) and
Disease duration tobeassociatedwithamodestreduction
long-standing inall-causemortality(56).
Life expectancy CardiovascularDiseaseandType2Diabetes
short In type 2 diabetes, there is evidence
that more intensive treatment of glyce-
Important comorbidities mia in newly diagnosed patients may
severe reducelong-termCVDrates.Inaddition,
data from the Swedish National Diabe-
Established vascular
complications tes Registry (56) and the Joint Asia Dia-
severe betes Evaluation (JADE) demonstrate
greater proportions of people with dia-
Patient preference betes being diagnosed at <40 years of
preference for less age and a demonstrably increased bur-
burdensome therapy
den of heart disease and years of life
Resources and support lost in people diagnosed at a younger
system age (57–60).Thus, to prevent both mi-
limited
crovascular and macrovascular compli-
cationsofdiabetes,thereisamajorcall
to overcome therapeutic inertia and
treat to target for an individual patient
(60,61). During the UKPDS, there was a
16%reductioninCVDevents(combined
risk. These trials showed that lower higher versus lower A1C; therefore, fatal or nonfatal MI and sudden death)
A1Clevelswereassociatedwithreduced beyond post hoc analysis of these tri- in the intensive glycemic control arm
onset or progression of some micro- als, we do not have evidence that it is thatdidnotreachstatisticalsignificance
vascularcomplications(50–52). theglucoseloweringbytheseagentsthat (P = 0.052), and there was no sugges-
The concerning mortality findings confers the CVD and renal benefit (53). tion of benefit on other CVD outcomes
in the ACCORD trial discussed below Assuch,basedonclinicianjudgmentand (e.g., stroke). Similar to the DCCT/EDIC,
and the relatively intense efforts re- patientpreferences,selectpatients,espe- after 10 years of observational follow-
quiredtoachieveneareuglycemiashould cially those with little comorbidity and a up, those originally randomized to in-
also be considered when setting gly- long life expectancy, may benefit from tensive glycemic control had significant
cemic targets for individuals with long- adoptingmoreintensiveglycemictargets long-term reductions in MI (15% with
standingdiabetes,suchasthosepopula- iftheycanachievethemsafelyandwith- sulfonylureaorinsulinasinitialpharma-
tionsstudiedinACCORD,ADVANCE,and out hypoglycemia or significant thera- cotherapy, 33% with metformin as ini-
VADT. Findings from these studies sug- peuticburden. tial pharmacotherapy) and in all-cause
gestcaution isneeded intreating diabe- mortality (13% and 27%, respectively)
tes to near-normal A1C goals in people A1CandCardiovascularDisease (47).
with long-standing type 2 diabetes with Outcomes ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VADT sug-
oratsignificantriskofCVD. CardiovascularDiseaseandType1Diabetes gested no significant reduction in CVD
These landmark studies need to be CVD is a more common cause of death outcomes with intensive glycemic control
considered with an important caveat; thanmicrovascularcomplicationsinpop- in participants followed for shorter dura-
glucagon-likepeptide1(GLP-1)receptor ulationswithdiabetes.There isevidence tions (3.5–5.6 years) and who had more
agonists and sodium–glucose cotrans- for a cardiovascular benefit of intensive advanced type 2 diabetes and CVD risk
porter2(SGLT2)inhibitorswerenotap- glycemic control after long-term follow- thantheUKPDSparticipants.Allthreetri-
proved at the time of these trials. As upofcohortstreatedearlyinthecourse alswereconductedinrelativelyolderpar-
such,these agents with established car- of type 1 diabetes. In the DCCT, there ticipants with a longer known duration
diovascularandrenalbenefitsappearto was a trend toward lower risk of CVD of diabetes (mean duration 8–11 years)
be safe and beneficial in this group of events with intensive control. In the and either CVD or multiple cardio-
individuals at high risk for cardiorenal 9-year post-DCCT follow-up of the vascular risk factors. The target A1C
complications.Randomizedclinicaltrials EDIC cohort, participants previously among intensive-control participants
examining these agents for cardiovas- randomized to the intensive arm had was <6% (42 mmol/mol) in ACCORD,
cular safety were not designed to test a significant 57% reduction in the risk <6.5% (48 mmol/mol) in ADVANCE,
Usually
not
modifiable
Potentially
modifiable
S102 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
newly diagnosed
long
absent few / mild
absent few / mild
highly motivated, excellent
self-care capabilities
readily available
Figure6.2—Patientanddiseasefactorsusedtodetermineoptimalglycemictargets.Character-
isticsandpredicamentstowardtheleftjustifymorestringenteffortstolowerA1C;thoseto-
wardtherightsuggestlessstringentefforts.A1C7%=53mmol/mol.Adaptedwithpermission
fromInzucchietal.(71).diabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S103
and a 1.5% reduction in A1C compared and mortality (69). Therefore, health engagepeoplewithtype1andtype2di-
with control participants in VADT, care professionals should be vigilant abetes in shared decision-making. More
with achieved A1C of 6.4% vs. 7.5% in preventing hypoglycemia and should aggressive targets may be recommended
(46 mmol/mol vs. 58 mmol/mol) in not aggressively attempt to achieve if they can be achieved safely and
ACCORD, 6.5% vs. 7.3% (48 mmol/mol near-normal A1C levels in people in with an acceptable burden of therapy
vs.56mmol/mol)inADVANCE,and6.9% whom such targets cannot be safely and if life expectancy is sufficient to
vs.8.4%(52mmol/molvs.68mmol/mol) and reasonably achieved. As discussed reap the benefits of stringent targets.
in VADT. Details of these studies are inSection9,“PharmacologicApproaches Less stringent targets (A1C up to 8%
reviewed extensively in the joint ADA toGlycemicTreatment,”additionofspe- [64 mmol/mol]) may be recommended
position statement “Intensive Glycemic cific SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1 receptor if the patient’s life expectancy is such
Control and the Prevention of Cardio- agonists that have demonstrated CVD that the benefits of an intensive goal
vascular Events: Implications of the benefit is recommended in patients may not be realized, or if the risks and
ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA Diabetes with established CVD, chronic kidney burdens outweigh the potential bene-
Trials”(61). disease,and heart failure. Asoutlinedin fits. Severe or frequent hypoglycemia
The glycemic control comparison in moredetailinSection9,“Pharmacologic is an absolute indication for the modi-
ACCORD was halted early due to an in- ApproachestoGlycemicTreatment,”and fication of treatment plans, including
creased mortality rate in the intensive Section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and settinghigherglycemicgoals.
compared with the standard treatment Risk Management,” the cardiovascular Diabetes is a chronic disease that pro-
arm (1.41% vs. 1.14% per year; hazard benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1 re- gresses over decades. Thus, a goal that
ratio 1.22 [95% CI 1.01–1.46]), with a ceptor agonists are not contingent upon might be appropriate for an individual
similar increase in cardiovascular deaths. A1C lowering; therefore, initiation can early in the course of theirdiabetes may
Analysis of the ACCORD data did not be considered in people with type 2 change over time. Newly diagnosed pa-
tientsand/orthosewithoutcomorbidities
identifyaclearexplanationfortheexcess diabetes and CVD independent of the
that limit life expectancy may benefit
mortality in the intensive treatment arm current A1C or A1C goal or metformin
from intensive control proven to prevent
(62). therapy. Based on these considera-
microvascular complications. Both DCCT/
Longer-term follow-up has shown no tions, the following two strategies are
EDICandUKPDSdemonstratedmetabolic
evidence of cardiovascular benefit, or offered(70): memory,oralegacyeffect,inwhichafi-
harm,intheADVANCEtrial(63).Theend-
nite period of intensive control yielded
stagerenaldiseaseratewaslowerinthe 1. If already on dual therapy or multi- benefits that extended for decades after
intensivetreatmentgroupoverfollow-up. ple glucose-lowering therapies and that control ended. Thus, a finite period
However, 10-year follow-up of the VADT not on an SGLT2 inhibitor or GLP-1 of intensive control to near-normal A1C
cohort (64) did demonstrate a reduction receptor agonist, consider switching may yield enduring benefits even if con-
in the risk of cardiovascular events (52.7 to one of these agents with proven trol is subsequently deintensified as pa-
[control group] vs. 44.1 [intervention
cardiovascularbenefit.
tient characteristics change. Over time,
2. Introduce SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1 comorbiditiesmayemerge,decreasinglife
group] events per 1,000 person-years)
with no benefit in cardiovascular or receptoragonistsin people with CVD expectancy and thereby decreasing the
at A1C goal (independent of met- potential to reap benefits from intensive
overall mortality. Heterogeneityof mor-
formin) for cardiovascular benefit, control. Also, with longer disease dura-
tality effects across studies was noted,
independentofbaselineA1Corin- tion, diabetes may become more diffi-
which mayreflectdifferences inglyce-
dividualizedA1Ctarget. culttocontrol,withincreasingrisksand
mic targets, therapeutic approaches,
burdens of therapy. Thus, A1C targets
and, importantly,populationcharacteris- shouldbereevaluatedovertimetobal-
SettingandModifyingA1CGoals
tics(65). ance the risks and benefits as patient
Numerous factors must be considered
MortalityfindingsinACCORD(62)and factorschange.
when setting glycemic targets.The ADA
subgroup analyses of VADT (66) suggest Recommended glycemic targets for
proposes general targets appropriate
thatthepotentialrisksofintensiveglyce- many nonpregnant adults are shown
for many people but emphasizes the
mic control may outweigh its benefits inTable6.3.Therecommendationsin-
importance of individualization based
in higher-risk individuals. In all three on key patient characteristics. Glycemic clude blood glucose levelsthatappear
trials,severehypoglycemiawassignifi-
targets must be individualized in the
to correlate with achievement of an
A1C of <7% (53 mmol/mol). Pregnancy
cantly more likely in participants who context of shared decision-making to
recommendationsarediscussedinmore
were randomly assigned to the inten- address individual needs and prefer- detail in Section 15, “Management of
sive glycemic control arm. Individuals encesandconsidercharacteristicsthat DiabetesinPregnancy.”
withalongdurationofdiabetes,aknown influence risks and benefits of therapy;
The issue of preprandial versus post-
historyofhypoglycemia,advanced ath- thisapproachmayoptimizeengagement
prandialBGMtargetsiscomplex(72,73).
erosclerosis, oradvancedage/frailtymay andself-efficacy.
Elevated postchallenge (2-h oral glucose
benefit from less aggressive targets The factors to consider in individualiz- tolerancetest)glucosevalueshavebeen
(67,68). inggoalsaredepictedinFig.6.2.Thisfig- associated with increased cardiovascular
As discussed further below, severe ure is not designed to be applied rigidly risk independent of fasting plasma glu-
hypoglycemiaisapotentmarkerofhigh but to be used as a broad construct to cose in some epidemiologic studies,
absolute risk of cardiovascular events guide clinical decision-making (71) and whereas intervention trials have notS104 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
Table6.3—Summaryofglycemicrecommendationsformanynonpregnant hypoglycemia avoidance educa-
adultswithdiabetes tion and reevaluation and ad-
A1C <7.0%(53mmol/mol)*# justment ofthetreatmentplan
Preprandialcapillaryplasmaglucose 80–130mg/dL*(4.4–7.2mmol/L) todecreasehypoglycemia.E
6.14 Insulin-treated patients with hy-
Peakpostprandialcapillaryplasmaglucose† <180mg/dL*(10.0mmol/L)
poglycemia unawareness, one
*More or less stringent glycemic goals may be appropriate for individual patients. #CGM level3hypoglycemicevent,ora
may be used to assess glycemic target as noted in Recommendation 6.5b and Fig. 6.1. pattern of unexplained level 2
Goalsshouldbeindividualizedbasedondurationofdiabetes,age/lifeexpectancy,comorbid
hypoglycemiashouldbeadvised
conditions, known CVD or advanced microvascular complications, hypoglycemia unaware-
ness, and individual patient considerations (as per Fig. 6.2). †Postprandial glucose may be to raise their glycemic targets
targeted if A1C goals are not met despite reaching preprandial glucose goals. Postprandial to strictly avoid hypoglycemia
glucose measurements should be made 1–2 h after the beginning of the meal, generally forat least several weeks in or-
peaklevelsinpeoplewithdiabetes. dertopartiallyreversehypogly-
cemia unawareness and reduce
riskoffutureepisodes.A
shown postprandial glucose to be a to 80–130 mg/dL (4.4–7.2 mmol/L) 6.15 Ongoing assessment of cogni-
cardiovascular risk factor independent but did not affect the definition of tivefunction issuggested with
ofA1C.Inpeoplewithdiabetes,surro- hypoglycemia. increased vigilance forhypogly-
gate measures of vascular pathology,
cemia by the clinician, patient,
such as endothelial dysfunction, are
HYPOGLYCEMIA and caregivers if impaired or
negatively affected by postprandial hy-
decliningcognitionisfound.B
perglycemia.Itisclearthatpostprandial Recommendations
hyperglycemia, like preprandial hyper- 6.10 Occurrenceandriskforhypogly-
glycemia, contributes to elevated A1C cemiashouldbereviewedatev- Hypoglycemia is the major limiting fac-
levels, with its relative contribution ery encounter and investigated tor in the glycemic management of
being greater at A1C levels that are asindicated.Awarenessofhypo- type1andtype2diabetes.Recommen-
closerto7%(53mmol/mol).However,
glycemia should be considered dations regarding the classification of
outcome studies have shown A1C to
usingvalidatedtools.C hypoglycemia are outlined in Table 6.4
be the primary predictor of complica- 6.11 Glucose(approximately15–20g) (74–83). Level 1 hypoglycemia is defined
tions, and landmark trials of glycemic
is the preferred treatment for as a measurable glucose concentration
control such as the DCCT and UKPDS
relied overwhelmingly on preprandial
the conscious individual with <70mg/dL(3.9mmol/L)but$54mg/dL
blood glucose <70 mg/dL (3.9
BGM. Additionally, a randomized con- (3.0mmol/L).Abloodglucoseconcentra-
mmol/L), although any form of
trolled trialinpatientswithknownCVD tion of 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) has been
found no CVD benefit of insulin treat- carbohydrate thatcontains glu- recognizedasathresholdforneuroendo-
ment plans targeting postprandial glu- cose may be used. Fifteen mi- crineresponsestofallingglucoseinpeo-
cose compared with those targeting nutes after treatment, if blood ple without diabetes. Because many
preprandial glucose (73). Therefore, it glucosemonitoring(BGM)shows people with diabetes demonstrate im-
is reasonable to check postprandial glu- continued hypoglycemia, the paired counterregulatory responses to
cose in individuals who have premeal treatment should be repeated.
hypoglycemia and/or experience hypo-
glucose values within target but A1C Once the BGM or glucose pat-
glycemia unawareness, a measured glu-
values above target. In addition,when tern is trending up, the individ- cose level <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) is
intensifying insulin therapy, measuring ual should consume a meal or
considered clinically important (indepen-
postprandial plasma glucose 1–2 h af- snack to prevent recurrence of
dent of the severity of acute hypoglyce-
ter the start of a meal (using BGM or hypoglycemia.B
mic symptoms). Level 2 hypoglycemia
CGM) and using treatments aimed at
6.12 Glucagon should be prescribed (definedasabloodglucoseconcentration
reducing postprandial plasma glucose
values to <180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L) for all individuals at increased <54mg/dL[3.0mmol/L])isthethreshold
risk of level 2 or 3 hypoglyce-
mayhelptolowerA1C. at which neuroglycopenic symptoms be-
mia,sothatitisavailableshould
Ananalysisofdatafrom470partici- gin to occur and requires immediate ac-
it be needed. Caregivers, school
pants in the ADAG study (237 with tiontoresolvethehypoglycemicevent.If
personnel, or family members
type 1 diabetes and 147 with type 2 a patient has level 2 hypoglycemia with-
providing support to these indi-
diabetes) found thatthe glucoseranges out adrenergic or neuroglycopenic symp-
viduals should know where it is
highlighted in Table 6.1 are adequate toms, they likely have hypoglycemia
and when and how to admin-
tomeettargetsanddecreasehypogly- unawareness (discussed further below).
ister it. Glucagon administra-
cemia (14).These findings support that This clinicalscenario warrantsinvestiga-
tion is not limited to health
premealglucosetargetsmayberelaxed tion and review of the treatment plan
careprofessionals.E
without undermining overall glycemic (75,79). Use Clarke score, Gold score,
6.13 Hypoglycemia unawareness or
controlasmeasuredbyA1C.Thesedata or Pedersen-Bjergaard score to assess
oneormoreepisodesoflevel3
prompted the revision in the ADA- impaired awareness (76). Lastly, level 3
hypoglycemia should trigger
recommendedpremealglucosetarget hypoglycemia is defined as a severediabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S105
In2015,theADAchangeditsprepran-
Table6.4—Classificationofhypoglycemia
dial glycemic target from 70–130 mg/dL
Glycemiccriteria/description (3.9–7.2 mmol/L) to 80–130 mg/dL
Level1 Glucose<70mg/dL(3.9mmol/L)and$54mg/dL(3.0mmol/L) (4.4–7.2 mmol/L). This change reflects
Level2 Glucose<54mg/dL(3.0mmol/L) the results of the ADAG study, which
demonstratedthat higher glycemic tar-
Level3 Asevereeventcharacterizedbyalteredmentaland/orphysicalstatusrequiring
gets corresponded to A1C goals (14).
assistancefortreatmentofhypoglycemia
An additional goal of raising the lower
ReprintedfromAgiostratidouetal.(74).
range of the glycemic target was to
limitovertreatmentandprovideasafety
margin in patients titrating glucose-
event characterized by altered mental increased risk of level 3 hypoglycemia
lowering drugs such as insulin to gly-
and/or physical functioning that re- (88,89). In addition to age and race,
cemictargets.
quires assistance from another person other important risk factors found in
forrecovery. a community-based epidemiologic co-
HypoglycemiaTreatment
Symptoms of hypoglycemia include, hortofolderadultswithtype2diabetes
Health care professionals should con-
but are not limited to, shakiness, irrita- include insulin use, poor or moderate
tinue to counsel patientsto treat hypo-
bility, confusion, tachycardia, and hun- versus good glycemic control, albumin-
glycemia with fast-acting carbohydrates
ger. Hypoglycemia may be inconvenient uria, and poor cognitive function (88).
at the hypoglycemia alert value of
or frightening to people with diabetes. Level 3 hypoglycemia was associated
70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) or less. This
Level3hypoglycemiamayberecognized with mortality in participants in both
should be reviewed at each patient
orunrecognizedandcanprogresstoloss the standard and the intensive glyce-
visit. Hypoglycemia treatment requires
ofconsciousness, seizure, coma, ordeath. mia arms of the ACCORD trial, butthe
ingestion of glucose- or carbohydrate-
Hypoglycemia is reversed by administra- relationships between hypoglycemia, containing foods (98–100). The acute
tion of rapid-acting glucose or glucagon. achieved A1C, and treatment intensity
glycemic response correlates better with
Hypoglycemia can cause acute harm to were not straightforward. An associa-
the glucose content of food than with
the person with diabetes or others, espe- tionoflevel3hypoglycemiawithmor-
the carbohydrate content of food. Pure
cially if it causes falls, motor vehicle acci- tality was also found in the ADVANCE
glucose is the preferred treatment, but
dents, or other injury. Recurrent level 2 trial(90).Anassociationbetweenself-
any form of carbohydrate that contains
hypoglycemiaand/orlevel3hypoglycemia reported level 3 hypoglycemia and 5-year
glucose will raise blood glucose. Added
isanurgentmedicalissueandrequiresin- mortalityhasalsobeenreportedinclinical
fat may retard and then prolong the
tervention with medical treatment plan practice (91). Glucose variability is also
acute glycemic response. In type 2 dia-
adjustment, behavioral intervention, and, associated with an increased risk for
betes,ingestedproteinmayincreaseinsu-
insomecases,useoftechnologytoassist hypoglycemia(92).
lin response without increasing plasma
withhypoglycemiapreventionandidenti- Young children with type 1 diabetes
glucose concentrations (101). Therefore,
fication(76,79–82).Alargecohortstudy and the elderly, including those with
carbohydratesourceshighinproteinshould
suggested thatamongolderadultswith type 1 and type 2 diabetes (84,93), are
not be used to treat or prevent hypogly-
type 2 diabetes, a history of level 3 hy- noted as particularly vulnerable to hy-
cemia. Ongoing insulin activity or insulin
poglycemia was associated with greater poglycemia because of their reduced
secretagogues may lead to recurrent hy-
risk of dementia (84). Conversely, in a ability to recognize hypoglycemic symp-
poglycemia unless more food is ingested
substudy of the ACCORD trial, cognitive tomsand effectivelycommunicate their
after recovery. Once the glucose returns
impairment at baseline or decline in needs. Individualized glucose targets,
tonormal,theindividualshouldbecoun-
cognitive function during the trial was patient education, nutrition interven-
seled to eat a meal or snack to prevent
significantly associated withsubsequent tion (e.g., bedtime snack to prevent
recurrenthypoglycemia.
episodes of level 3 hypoglycemia (85). overnight hypoglycemia when specifi-
Evidence from DCCT/EDIC, which in- cally needed to treat low blood glu-
Glucagon
volved adolescents and younger adults cose), physical activity management,
The use of glucagon is indicated for the
with type 1 diabetes, found no asso- medication adjustment, glucose moni-
treatmentofhypoglycemiainpeopleun-
ciation between frequency of level 3 toring, and routine clinical surveillance
able or unwilling to consume carbohy-
hypoglycemia and cognitive decline may improve patient outcomes (94).
drates by mouth.Those in close contact
(86). CGMwithautomatedlowglucose sus-
with, or having custodial care of, people
Studies of rates of level 3 hypoglyce- pend and hybrid closed-loop systems
with hypoglycemia-prone diabetes (fam-
mia that rely on claims data for hospi- havebeenshowntobeeffectiveinre- ilymembers,roommates,schoolperson-
talization, emergency department visits, ducing hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes nel, childcare professionals, correctional
and ambulance use substantially under- (95). For people with type 1 diabetes institution staff, orcoworkers) should be
estimate rates of level 3 hypoglycemia with level 3 hypoglycemia and hypogly- instructed on the use of glucagon, in-
(87) yet reveal a high burden of hypo- cemiaunawarenessthatpersistsdespite cluding where the glucagon product is
glycemia in adults over 60 years of medical treatment, human islet trans- kept and when and how to administer
age in the community (88). African plantation may be an option, butthe ap- it. An individual does not need to be
Americanindividualsareatsubstantially proachremainsexperimental(96,97). a health care professional to safelyS106 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
administer glucagon. In addition to tra- diabetes (106). Hence, individuals with insulin dosing can improve A1C with
ditional glucagon injection powder that one or more episodes of clinically signifi- minimalhypoglycemia(133,134).
requires reconstitution prior to injec- cant hypoglycemia may benefit from at
tion,intranasalglucagonandready-to- least short-term relaxation of glycemic
INTERCURRENTILLNESS
inject glucagon preparations for sub- targets and availability of glucagon (107).
Forfurtherinformationonmanagement
cutaneous injection are available and Any person with recurrent hypoglycemia
maybe beneficialinviewofsafety,ef- or hypoglycemia unawareness should of individuals withhyperglycemiainthe
ficacy,andeaseofuse.Careshouldbe have their glucose management treat- hospital, see Section 16, “Diabetes Care
taken to ensure that glucagon products mentplanadjusted.
intheHospital.”
arenotexpired(102). Stressful events (e.g., illness, trauma,
surgery)mayworsenglycemiccontroland
UseofCGMTechnologyinHypoglycemia
HypoglycemiaPrevention Prevention precipitatediabeticketoacidosisornonke-
Hypoglycemia prevention is a critical With the advent of sensor-augmented totic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state,
component of diabetes management. CGM and CGM-assisted pump therapy, life-threateningconditionsthatrequireim-
BGM and, for some individuals, CGM therehasbeenapromiseofalarm-based mediatemedicalcaretopreventcomplica-
are essential tools to assess therapy preventionofhypoglycemia(108,109).To tions and death. Any condition leading to
anddetectincipienthypoglycemia.Peo- date, there have been a number of ran- deterioration in glycemic control necessi-
plewithdiabetesshouldunderstandsit- domized controlled trials in adults with tates more frequent monitoring of blood
uations that increase their risk of type1diabetesandstudiesinadultsand glucose; ketosis-prone patients also re-
hypoglycemia, such as when fasting for childrenwithtype1diabetesusingreal- quireurineorbloodketonemonitoring.If
laboratory tests or procedures, when time CGM (see Section 7, “Diabetes accompaniedbyketosis,vomiting,oral-
meals are delayed, duringand after the Technology”). These studies had differ-
teration in the level of consciousness,
consumption of alcohol, during and af-
ing A1C at entry and differing primary
marked hyperglycemia requires tempo-
ter intense physical activity, and during
end points and thus must be inter-
sleep. Hypoglycemia may increase the rary adjustment of the treatment plan
preted carefully. Real-time CGM studies
risk of harm to self or others, such as and immediate interaction with the dia-
can be divided into studies with ele-
whendriving.Teachingpeoplewithdia- betescareteam.Thepatienttreatedwith
vated A1C with the primary end point
betes to balance insulin use and carbo- noninsulin therapies or medical nutrition
of A1C reduction and studies with A1C
hydrate intake and physical activity are therapy alone may require insulin. Ade-
near target with the primary end
necessary, but these strategies are not quate fluid and caloric intake must be
always sufficient for prevention (77, point of reduction in hypoglycemia (98, ensured. Infection or dehydration are
103–105). Formal training programs to 109–124). In people with type 1 and
more likely to necessitate hospitaliza-
increase awareness of hypoglycemia type 2 diabetes with A1C above target,
tion of individuals with diabetes versus
and to develop strategies to decrease CGM improved A1C between 0.3 and
thosewithoutdiabetes.
hypoglycemia have been developed, in- 0.6%. For studies targeting hypoglyce-
cluding the Blood Glucose Awareness mia,moststudiesdemonstratedasignifi- A clinician with expertise in diabetes
management should treat the hospital-
Training Program, Dose Adjusted for cantreductionintimespentbetween54
ized patient. For further information on
Normal Eating (DAFNE), and DAFNE- and 70 mg/dL. A report in people with
plus. Conversely, some individuals with type1diabetesovertheageof60years themanagementofdiabeticketoacidosis
type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes and revealed a small but statistically signifi- andthenonketotichyperglycemichyper-
hypoglycemia who have a fearof hyper- cantdecreaseinhypoglycemia(125).No osmolar state, please refer to the ADA
glycemia are resistant to relaxation of studytodatehasreportedadecreasein consensus report “Hyperglycemic Crises
glycemic targets (74–83). Regardless of level 3 hypoglycemia. In a single study inAdultPatientsWithDiabetes”(134).
the factors contributingto hypoglycemia
usingintermittentlyscannedCGM,adults
andhypoglycemiaunawareness,thisrep- with type 1 diabetes with A1C neargoal References
resentsanurgentmedicalissuerequiring 1. Deshmukh H,Wilmot EG, Gregory R, et al.
andimpaired awarenessof hypoglycemia
intervention. Effect of flash glucose monitoring on glycemic
demonstrated no change in A1C and
Intype1diabetesandseverelyinsulin- control,hypoglycemia,diabetes-relateddistress,
decreasedlevel2hypoglycemia(115).For
deficient type 2 diabetes, hypoglycemia and resource utilization in the Association of
people with type 2 diabetes, studies BritishClinicalDiabetologists(ABCD)nationwide
unawareness(orhypoglycemia-associated
examining the impact of CGM on hy- audit.DiabetesCare2020;43:2153–2160
autonomic failure) can severely compro-
poglycemic events are limited; a re- 2. Laiteerapong N, Ham SA, Gao Y, et al.The
mise stringent diabetes control and qual-
cent meta-analysis does not reflect a legacyeffectintype2diabetes:impactofearly
ity of life.This syndrome is characterized glycemic control on future complications (the
by deficient counterregulatory hormone
significantimpactonhypoglycemicevents
Diabetes&AgingStudy).DiabetesCare2019;42:
release, especially in older adults, and a in type 2 diabetes (126), whereas im- 416–426
diminished autonomic response, which provements in A1C were observed in 3. Stratton IM, Adler AI, Neil HAW, et al.
are both risk factors for and caused by most studies (126–132). Overall, real- Associationofglycaemiawithmacrovascularand
hypoglycemia. A corollary to this “vicious time CGM appears to be a useful tool microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes
(UKPDS 35): prospective observational study.
cycle” isthat several weeks of avoidance for decreasing time spent in a hypo-
BMJ2000;321:405–412
of hypoglycemia has been demonstrated glycemic rangeinpeople with impaired 4. LittleRR,RohlfingCL;NationalGlycohemoglobin
to improve counterregulation and hypo- awareness.Forpeoplewithtype2diabe- StandardizationProgram(NGSP)SteeringCommittee.
glycemia awarenessin many people with tes,other strategies to assist them with StatusofhemoglobinA1cmeasurementandgoalsdiabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S107
forimprovement:fromchaostoorderforimproving Cohort Study. Impact of common genetic fortheStudyofDiabetes(EASD).DiabetesCare
diabetescare.ClinChem2011;57:205–214 determinants of hemoglobin A1c on type 2 2021;44:2589–2625
5. ValenzanoM,CibrarioBertolottiI,Valenzano diabetesriskanddiagnosisinancestrallydiverse 35. BattelinoT, Danne T,BergenstalRM, etal.
A, Grassi G. Time in range-A1c hemoglobin populations: a transethnic genome-wide meta- Clinicaltargetsforcontinuousglucosemonitoring
relationshipincontinuousglucosemonitoringof analysis.PLoSMed2017;14:e1002383 datainterpretation:recommendationsfromthe
type1diabetes:areal-worldstudy.BMJOpen 21. Diabetes Research in Children Network InternationalConsensusonTimeinRange.Diabetes
DiabetesResCare2021;9:e001045 (DirecNet)Study Group.Relationshipof A1Cto Care2019;42:1593–1603
6. Fabris C, Heinemann L, Beck R, Cobelli C, glucose concentrations in children with type 1 36. TcheroH,KangambegaP,BriatteC,Brunet-
KovatchevB.EstimationofhemoglobinA1cfrom diabetes:assessmentsbyhigh-frequencyglucose Houdard S, Retali GR, Rusch E. Clinical effec-
continuousglucosemonitoringdatainindividuals determinationsbysensors.DiabetesCare2008; tiveness of telemedicine in diabetes mellitus: a
withtype1diabetes:istimeinrangeallweneed? 31:381–385 meta-analysisof42randomizedcontrolledtrials.
DiabetesTechnolTher2020;22:501–508 22. Buse JB, Kaufman FR, Linder B, Hirst K, El TelemedJEHealth2019;25:569–583
7. RanjanAG,RosenlundSV,HansenTW,Rossing Ghormli L; HEALTHY Study Group. Diabetes 37. Salabelle C, Ly Sall K, Eroukhmanoff J,
P,AndersenS,NørgaardK.Improvedtimeinrange screeningwith hemoglobin A(1c)versus fasting etal.COVID-19pandemiclockdowninyoung
over1yearisassociatedwithreducedalbuminuria plasma glucose in a multiethnic middle-school peoplewithtype1diabetes:positiveresultsof
in individuals with sensor-augmented insulin cohort.DiabetesCare2013;36:429–435 an unprecedented challenge for patients
pump-treated type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 23. Kamps JL, Hempe JM, Chalew SA. Racial through telemedicine and change in use of
2020;43:2882–2885
disparity in A1C independent of mean blood continuous glucose monitoring. Prim Care
8. Beck RW, Bergenstal RM, Cheng P, et al.The glucoseinchildrenwithtype1diabetes.Diabetes Diabetes2021;15:884–886
relationshipsbetweentimeinrange,hyperglycemia Care2010;33:1025–1027 38. PrabhuNavisJ,LeelarathnaL,MubitaW,etal.
metrics,andHbA1c.JDiabetesSciTechnol2019; 24. AdvaniA.Positioningtimeinrangeindiabetes ImpactofCOVID-19lockdownonflashandreal-
13:614–626 management.Diabetologia2020;63:242–252 timeglucosesensoruserswithtype1diabetesin
9. (cid:1) SoupalJ,Petru(cid:1)zelkov(cid:3)aL,GrunbergerG,etal. 25. AvariP,UdukuC,GeorgeD,HerreroP,Reddy England.ActaDiabetol2021;58:231–237
Glycemic outcomes in adults with T1D are M,OliverN.Differencesforpercentagetimesin 39. SeiduS,KunutsorSK,TopseverP,Hambling
impactedmorebycontinuousglucosemonitoring glycemic range between continuous glucose CE, Cos FX, Khunti K. Deintensification in older
than by insulin delivery method: 3 years of
monitoringandcapillarybloodglucosemonitoring patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic
follow-up from the COMISAIR study. Diabetes
in adults with type 1 diabetes: analysis of the review of approaches, rates and outcomes.
Care2020;43:37–43
REPLACE-BGdataset.DiabetesTechnolTher2020; DiabetesObesMetab2019;21:1668–1679
10. Jovanovi(cid:1)c L, Savas H, Mehta M,Trujillo A, 22:222–227 40. KhuntiK,DaviesMJ.Clinicalinertia–timeto
Pettitt DJ. Frequent monitoring of A1C during
26. VigerskyRA,McMahonC.Therelationshipof reappraisetheterminology?PrimCareDiabetes
pregnancyasatreatmenttooltoguidetherapy. hemoglobin A1C to time-in-range in patients 2017;11:105–106
DiabetesCare2011;34:53–54
with diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21: 41. Whitehead L, Glass C, Coppell K. The
11. KidneyDisease:ImprovingGlobalOutcomes
81–85 effectivenessofgoalsettingonglycaemiccontrol
(KDIGO)DiabetesWorkGroup.KDIGO2020clinical 27. Kro€gerJ, ReichelA, Siegmund T, ZieglerR. forpeoplewithtype2diabetesandprediabetes:
practice guideline for diabetes management in
Clinical recommendations for the use of the a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Adv
chronic kidney disease. Kidney Int 2020;98(4S):
ambulatory glucose profile in diabetes care. J Nurs2022;78:1212–1227
S1–S115
DiabetesSciTechnol2020;14:586–594 42. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial
12. Beck RW, Connor CG, Mullen DM,Wesley
28. Livingstone R, Boyle JG, Petrie JR. How (DCCT)/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions
DM,BergenstalRM.Thefallacyofaverage:how
tightlycontrolleddofluctuationsinbloodglucose andComplications(EDIC)ResearchGroup;Lachin
usingHbA alonetoassessglycemiccontrolcan
bemislead 1 i C ng.DiabetesCare2017;40:994–999 levelsneedtobetoreducetheriskofdeveloping JM,White NH, Hainsworth DP, et al. Effect of
complications in people with type 1 diabetes? intensivediabetestherapyontheprogressionof
13. Nathan DM, Kuenen J, Borg R, Zheng H,
DiabetMed2020;37:513–521 diabetic retinopathy in patients with type 1
Schoenfeld D; A1c-Derived Average Glucose
29. MesserLH,BergetC,VigersT,etal.Realworld diabetes:18yearsoffollow-upintheDCCT/EDIC.
Study Group. Translating the A1C assay into
hybridclosed-loopdiscontinuation:Predictorsand Diabetes2015;64:631–642
estimatedaverageglucosevalues.DiabetesCare
2008;31:1473–1478 perceptions of youth discontinuing the 670G 43. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/
system in the first 6 months. Pediatr Diabetes Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
14. Wei N, Zheng H, Nathan DM. Empirically
2020;21:319–327 ComplicationsResearchGroup;LachinJM,Genuth
establishing blood glucose targets to achieve
HbA1cgoals.DiabetesCare2014;37:1048–1051 30. MayedaL, Katz R, Ahmad I, etal. Glucose S, Cleary P, Davis MD, Nathan DM. Retinopathy
15. Selvin E. Are there clinical implications of timeinrangeandperipheralneuropathyintype2 andnephropathyinpatientswithtype1diabetes
racialdifferencesinHbA1c?Adifference,tobea diabetesmellitusandchronickidneydisease.BMJ fouryearsafteratrialofintensivetherapy.NEnglJ
difference, must make a difference. Diabetes OpenDiabetesResCare2020;8:e000991 Med2000;342:381–389
Care2016;39:1462–1467 31. Yoo JH, Choi MS, Ahn J, et al. Association 44. OhkuboY,KishikawaH,ArakiE,etal.Intensive
16. Bergenstal RM, Gal RL, Connor CG, et al.; between continuous glucose monitoring-derived insulintherapypreventstheprogressionofdiabetic
T1D Exchange Racial Differences Study Group. timeinrange,othercoremetrics,andalbuminuria microvascular complications in Japanese patients
Racialdifferencesintherelationshipofglucose intype2diabetes.DiabetesTechnolTher2020; with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: a
concentrationsandhemoglobinA1clevels.Ann 22:768–776 randomizedprospective6-yearstudy.DiabetesRes
InternMed2017;167:95–102 32. Lu J,MaX,ShenY, etal.Time in range is ClinPract1995;28:103–117
17. Khosla L, Bhat S, Fullington LA, Horlyck- associatedwithcarotidintima-mediathicknessin 45. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS)
Romanovsky MF. HbA performance in african type2diabetes.DiabetesTechnolTher2020;22: Group.Effectofintensiveblood-glucosecontrol
descent populations in 1c the United States with 72–78 withmetforminoncomplicationsinoverweight
normalglucosetolerance,prediabetes,ordiabetes: 33. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial patientswithtype2diabetes(UKPDS34).Lancet
ascopingreview.PrevChronicDis2021;18:E22 ResearchGroup;NathanDM,GenuthS,LachinJ, 1998;352:854–865
18. LacyME,WelleniusGA,SumnerAE,Correa et al. The effect of intensive treatment of 46. UKProspectiveDiabetesStudy(UKPDS)Group.
A,CarnethonMR,LiemRI,etal.Associationof diabetesonthedevelopmentandprogressionof Intensiveblood-glucosecontrolwithsulphonylureas
sickle cell trait with hemoglobin A1c in African long-term complications in insulin-dependent or insulin compared with conventional treatment
Americans.JAMA2017;317:507–515. diabetes mellitus.NEnglJMed1993;329:977– and riskofcomplications in patients with type 2
19. RohlfingC,HansonS,LittleRR.Measurement 986 diabetes(UKPDS33).Lancet1998;352:837–853
ofhemoglobinA1cinpatientswithsicklecelltrait. 34. HoltRIG,DeVriesJH,Hess-FischlA,etal.The 47. HolmanRR,PaulSK,BethelMA,Matthews
JAMA2017;317:2237. management of type 1 diabetes in adults. A DR, Neil HAW. 10-year follow-up of intensive
20. WheelerE,LeongA,LiuCT,etal.;EPIC-CVD Consensus report by the American Diabetes glucosecontrolintype2diabetes.NEnglJMed
Consortium; EPIC-InterAct Consortium; Lifelines Association(ADA)andtheEuropeanAssociation 2008;359:1577–1589S108 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
48. LindM,PivodicA,SvenssonAM,O (cid:3) lafsdo(cid:3)ttir 61. Skyler JS, Bergenstal R, Bonow RO, et al.; Association, the Endocrine Society, JDRF Interna-
AF,WedelH,LudvigssonJ.HbA1clevelasarisk AmericanDiabetesAssociation;AmericanCollege tional, The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley
factor for retinopathy and nephropathy in of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart CharitableTrust,thePediatricEndocrineSociety,and
childrenandadultswithtype1diabetes:Swedish Association. Intensive glycemic control and the theT1DExchange.DiabetesCare2017;40:1622–1630
population based cohort study. BMJ 2019;366: preventionofcardiovascularevents:implicationsof 75. PolonskyWH,FortmannAL,PriceD,Fisher
l4894 theACCORD,ADVANCE,andVAdiabetestrials:a L.“Hyperglycemiaaversiveness”:investigatingan
49. Adler AI, Stratton IM, Neil HAW, et al. position statement of the American Diabetes overlooked problem among adults with type 1
Association of systolic blood pressure with Association and a scientific statement of the diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2021;35:
macrovascular and microvascular complications AmericanCollegeofCardiologyFoundationand 107925
of type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 36): prospective the American Heart Association. Diabetes Care 76. GhandiK,PieriB,DornhorstA,HussainS.A
observationalstudy.BMJ2000;321:412–419 2009;32:187–192 comparisonofvalidatedmethodsusedtoassess
50. Duckworth W, Abraira C, Moritz T, et al.; 62. Gerstein HC, Miller ME, Byington RP, et al.; impairedawarenessofhypoglycaemiaintype1
VADTInvestigators.Glucosecontrolandvascular ActiontoControlCardiovascularRiskinDiabetes diabetes:anobservationalstudy.DiabetesTher
complicationsinveteranswithtype2diabetes.N StudyGroup.Effectsofintensiveglucoselowering 2021;12:441–451
EnglJMed2009;360:129–139 in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358: 77. LiP,GengZ,LadageVP,WuJ,LorinczI,Doshi
51. Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, et al.; 2545–2559 JA.Earlyhypoglycaemiaandadherenceafterbasal
ADVANCE Collaborative Group. Intensive blood 63. Zoungas S, Chalmers J, Neal B, et al.; insulin initiation in a nationally representative
glucosecontrolandvascularoutcomesinpatients ADVANCE-ONCollaborativeGroup.Follow-upof sample of Medicare beneficiaries with type 2
with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358: blood-pressure loweringand glucose control in diabetes.DiabetesObesMetab2019;21:2486–2495
2560–2572 type2diabetes.NEnglJMed2014;371:1392– 78. Hendrieckx C, Ivory N, Singh H, Frier BM,
52. Ismail-BeigiF,CravenT,BanerjiMA,etal.; 1406 Speight J. Impact of severe hypoglycaemia on
ACCORDtrialgroup.Effectofintensivetreatment 64. HaywardRA,ReavenPD,WiitalaWL,etal.; psychological outcomes in adults with type 2
ofhyperglycaemiaonmicrovascularoutcomesin VADTInvestigators.Follow-upofglycemiccontrol diabetes: a systematic review. Diabet Med
type 2 diabetes: an analysis of the ACCORD andcardiovascularoutcomesintype2diabetes. 2019;36:1082–1091
randomisedtrial.Lancet2010;376:419–430 NEnglJMed2015;372:2197–2206 79. AmielSA,PottsL,GoldsmithK,etal.Aparallel
53. BuseJB,BainSC,MannJFE,etal.;LEADER 65. TurnbullFM,AbrairaC,AndersonRJ,etal.; randomised controlled trial of the Hypoglycaemia
Trial Investigators.Cardiovascular riskreduction Control Group. Intensive glucose control and Awareness Restoration Programme for adults with
withliraglutide:anexploratorymediationanalysis macrovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. type 1 diabetes and problematic hypoglycaemia
of the LEADER trial. Diabetes Care 2020;43: Diabetologia2009;52:2288–2298 despiteoptimisedself-care(HARPdoc).NatCommun
1546–1552 66. DuckworthWC,AbrairaC,MoritzTE,etal.; 2022;13:2229
54. Nathan DM, Cleary PA, Backlund JYC, Investigators of the VADT. The duration of 80. KhuntiK,AlsifriS,AronsonR,etal.Impactof
et al.; Diabetes Control and Complications diabetesaffectstheresponsetointensiveglucose hypoglycaemiaonpatient-reportedoutcomesfrom
Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and controlintype2subjects:theVADiabetesTrial.J aglobal,24-countrystudyof27,585peoplewith
Complications(DCCT/EDIC)StudyResearchGroup. DiabetesComplications2011;25:355–361 type1andinsulin-treatedtype2diabetes.Diabetes
Intensive diabetes treatment and cardiovascular 67. LipskaKJ,RossJS,MiaoY,ShahND,LeeSJ, ResClinPract 2017;130:121–129
diseaseinpatientswithtype1diabetes.NEnglJ SteinmanMA.Potentialovertreatmentofdiabetes 81. Choudhary P, Amiel SA. Hypoglycaemia in
Med2005;353:2643–2653 mellitusinolderadultswithtightglycemiccontrol. type1diabetes:technologicaltreatments,their
55. Nathan DM, Zinman B, Cleary PA, et al.; JAMAInternMed2015;175:356–362 limitationsandtheplaceofpsychology.Diabetologia
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/ 68. VijanS,SussmanJB,YudkinJS,HaywardRA. 2018;61:761–769
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Effectofpatients’risksandpreferencesonhealth 82. HopkinsD,LawrenceI,MansellP,Thompson
Complications (DCCT/EDIC) Research Group. gainswithplasmaglucoselevelloweringintype2 G,AmielS,CampbellM,etal.Improvedbiomedical
Modern-dayclinicalcourseoftype1diabetes diabetes mellitus. JAMA Intern Med 2014;174: andpsychologicaloutcomes1yearafterstructured
mellitusafter30years’duration:thediabetes 1227–1234 educationinflexibleinsulintherapyforpeoplewith
control and complications trial/epidemiology 69. Lee AK, Warren B, Lee CJ, et al. The type 1 diabetes: the U.K. DAFNE experience.
of diabetes interventions and complications associationofseverehypoglycemiawithincident DiabetesCare2012;35:1638–1642
andPittsburghepidemiologyofdiabetescomp- cardiovasculareventsandmortalityinadultswith 83. YangW,MaJ,YuanG,etal.Determiningthe
lications experience (1983-2005). Arch Intern type2diabetes.DiabetesCare2018;41:104–111 optimalfastingglucosetargetforpatientswithtype2
Med2009;169:1307–1316 70. Davies MJ, D’Alessio DA, Fradkin J, et al. diabetes: results of the multicentre, open-label,
56. Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration; Di Managementofhyperglycemiaintype2diabetes, randomized-controlledFPGGOALtrial.DiabetesObes
Angelantonio E, Kaptoge S, Wormser D, et al. 2018. A consensus report by the American Metab2019;21:1973–1977
Association of cardiometabolic multimorbidity Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European 84. WhitmerRA,KarterAJ,YaffeK,Quesenberry
withmortality.JAMA2015;314:52–60 Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). CPJr,SelbyJV.Hypoglycemicepisodesandriskof
57. YeungRO,ZhangY,LukA,etal.Metabolic DiabetesCare2018;41:2669–2701 dementiainolderpatientswithtype2diabetes
profilesandtreatmentgapsinyoung-onsettype2 71. InzucchiSE, Bergenstal RM, BuseJB, et al. mellitus.JAMA2009;301:1565–1572
diabetesinAsia(theJADEprogramme):across- Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 85. Punthakee Z, Miller ME, Launer LJ, et al.;
sectional study of a prospective cohort. Lancet diabetes, 2015: a patient-centered approach: ACCORDGroupofInvestigators;ACCORD-MIND
DiabetesEndocrinol2014;2:935–943 updatetoapositionstatementoftheAmerican Investigators.Poorcognitivefunctionandriskof
58. SattarN,RawshaniA,Franz(cid:3)enS,etal.Age Diabetes Association and the European Asso- severehypoglycemiaintype2diabetes:posthoc
at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus and ciationfortheStudyofDiabetes.DiabetesCare epidemiologic analysis of the ACCORD trial.
associations with cardiovascular and mortality 2015;38:140–149 DiabetesCare2012;35:787–793
risks.Circulation2019;139:2228–2237 72. AmericanDiabetesAssociation.Postprandial 86. Jacobson AM, Musen G, Ryan CM, et al.;
59. ZabalaA,DarsaliaV,HolzmannMJ,etal.Risk bloodglucose.DiabetesCare2001;24:775–778 Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/
offirststrokeinpeoplewithtype2diabetesand 73. RazI,WilsonPWF,StrojekK,etal.Effectsof Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
its relation to glycaemic control: a nationwide prandialversusfastingglycemiaoncardiovascular ComplicationsStudyResearchGroup.Long-term
observationalstudy.DiabetesObesMetab2020; outcomesintype2diabetes:theHEART2Dtrial. effectofdiabetesanditstreatmentoncognitive
22:182–190 DiabetesCare2009;32:381–386 function.NEnglJMed2007;356:1842–1852
60. Zoungas S, Woodward M, Li Q, et al.; 74. Agiostratidou G, Anhalt H, Ball D, et al. 87. Karter AJ, Moffet HH, Liu JY, Lipska KJ.
ADVANCECollaborativegroup.Impactofage,age Standardizing clinically meaningful outcome Surveillance of hypoglycemia—limitations of
atdiagnosisanddurationofdiabetesontheriskof measures beyond HbA for type 1 diabetes: a emergency department and hospital utilization
1c
macrovascularandmicrovascularcomplicationsand consensusreportoftheAmericanAssociationof data.JAMAInternMed2018;178:987–988
death in type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 2014;57: ClinicalEndocrinologists,theAmericanAssociation 88. LeeAK,LeeCJ,HuangES,SharrettAR,Coresh
2465–2474 of Diabetes Educators, the American Diabetes J,SelvinE.riskfactorsforseverehypoglycemiaindiabetesjournals.org/care GlycemicTargets S109
black and white adults with diabetes: the 104. Farrell CM, McCrimmon RJ. Clinical randomised, open-label, crossover trial. Lancet
AtherosclerosisRiskinCommunities(ARIC)study. approaches to treat impaired awareness of DiabetesEndocrinol2016;4:893–902
DiabetesCare2017;40:1661–1667 hypoglycaemia. Ther Adv Endocrinol Metab 118. BattelinoT,CongetI,OlsenB,etal.;SWITCH
89. Karter AJ, Lipska KJ, O’Connor PJ, et al.; 2021;12:20420188211000248 StudyGroup.Theuseandefficacyofcontinuous
SUPREME-DMStudyGroup.Highratesofsevere 105. Cox DJ, Gonder-Frederick L, Julian DM, glucosemonitoringintype1diabetestreatedwith
hypoglycemiaamongAfricanAmericanpatients Clarke W. Long-term follow-up evaluation of insulin pump therapy: a randomised controlled
withdiabetes:thesurveillance,prevention,and bloodglucoseawarenesstraining.DiabetesCare trial.Diabetologia2012;55:3155–3162
Management of Diabetes Mellitus (SUPREME- 1994;17:1–5 119. Deiss D, Bolinder J, Riveline JP, et al.
DM)network.JDiabetesComplications2017;31: 106. CryerPE.Diversecausesofhypoglycemia- Improved glycemic control in poorly controlled
869–873 associatedautonomicfailureindiabetes.NEnglJ patients with type 1 diabetes using real-time
90. ZoungasS,PatelA,ChalmersJ,etal.;ADVANCE Med2004;350:2272–2279 continuous glucose monitoring. Diabetes Care
CollaborativeGroup.Severehypoglycemiaandrisks 107. MitchellBD,HeX,SturdyIM,CagleAP,Settles 2006;29:2730–2732
of vascular events and death. N Engl J Med JA.Glucagonprescriptionpatternsinpatientswith 120. Tamborlane WV, Beck RW, Bode BW,
2010;363:1410–1418 eithertype1or2diabeteswithnewlyprescribed etal.;JuvenileDiabetesResearchFoundation
91. McCoy RG, Van Houten HK, Ziegenfuss JY, insulin.EndocrPract2016;22:123–135 ContinuousGlucoseMonitoringStudyGroup.
Shah ND, Wermers RA, Smith SA. Increased 108. HermannsN,HeinemannL,FreckmannG, Continuous glucose monitoring and intensive
mortality of patients with diabetes reporting WaldenmaierD,EhrmannD.ImpactofCGMon treatment of type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med
severe hypoglycemia. Diabetes Care 2012;35: the management of hypoglycemia problems: 2008;359:1464–1476
1897–1901 overviewandsecondaryanalysisoftheHypoDE 121. O’ConnellMA,DonathS,O’NealDN,etal.
92. CahnA, ZukerI, Eilenberg R, etal.Machine study.JDiabetesSciTechnol2019;13:636–644 Glycaemicimpactofpatient-leduseofsensor-
learningbasedstudyoflongitudinalHbA1ctrends 109. Heinemann L, Freckmann G, Ehrmann D, guided pump therapy in type 1 diabetes: a
Faber-Heinemann G, Guerra S, Waldenmaier D, randomisedcontrolledtrial.Diabetologia2009;
and their association with all-cause mortality:
etal.HeinemannL,FreckmannG,EhrmannD,etal. 52:1250–1257
analysesfromanationaldiabetesregistry.Diabetes
Real-timecontinuousglucosemonitoringinadults 122. BeckRW,HirschIB,LaffelL,etal.;Juvenile
MetabResRev2022;38:e3485
withtype1diabetesandimpairedhypoglycaemia DiabetesResearchFoundationContinuousGlucose
93. DuBose SN,Weinstock RS, Beck RW, et al.
awareness or severe hypoglycaemia treated with MonitoringStudyGroup.Theeffectofcontinuous
Hypoglycemiainolderadultswithtype1diabetes.
DiabetesTechnolTher2016;18:765–771 multiple daily insulin injections (HypoDE): a glucose monitoring in well-controlled type 1
multicentre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet diabetes.DiabetesCare2009;32:1378–1383
94. Seaquist ER, Anderson J, Childs B, et al.
2018;391:1367–1377 123. BattelinoT,PhillipM,BratinaN,NimriR,
Hypoglycemia and diabetes: a report of a
110. BeckRW,RiddlesworthT,RuedyK,Ahmann Oskarsson P, Bolinder J. Effect of continuous
workgroupoftheAmericanDiabetesAssociation
A,BergenstalR,HallerS,etal.Effectofcontinuous glucose monitoring on hypoglycemia in type 1
and the Endocrine Society. Diabetes Care
2013;36:1384–1395
glucosemonitoringonglycemiccontrolinadults diabetes.DiabetesCare2011;34:795–800
withtype1diabetesusinginsulininjections:the 124. Ludvigsson J, Hanas R. Continuous
95. BergenstalRM,KlonoffDC,GargSK,etal.;
DIAMOND randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2017; subcutaneous glucose monitoring improved
ASPIRE In-Home Study Group.Threshold-based
317:371–378 metabolic control in pediatric patients with
insulin-pumpinterruptionforreductionofhypo-
111. Sequeira PA, Montoya L, Ruelas V, et al. type1diabetes:acontrolledcrossoverstudy.
glycemia.NEnglJMed2013;369:224–232
Continuous glucose monitoring pilot in low- Pediatrics2003;111:933–938
96. Hering BJ, Clarke WR, Bridges ND, et al.;
incometype1diabetespatients.DiabetesTechnol 125. PratleyRE,KanapkaLG,RickelsMR,Ahmann
ClinicalIsletTransplantationConsortium.Phase3
Ther2013;15:855–858 A, Aleppo G, Beck R, etal. Effect ofcontinuous
trialoftransplantationofhumanisletsintype1 112. TumminiaA,CrimiS,SciaccaL,etal.Efficacy glucose monitoring on hypoglycemia in older
diabetes complicated by severe hypoglycemia.
of real-time continuous glucose monitoring on adultswithtype1diabetes:arandomizedclinical
DiabetesCare2016;39:1230–1240
glycaemiccontrolandglucosevariabilityintype1 trial.JAMA2020;323:2397–2406
97. Harlan DM. Islet transplantation for
diabeticpatientstreatedwitheitherinsulinpumps 126. DicembriniI,MannucciE,MonamiM,PalaL.
hypoglycemiaunawareness/severehypoglycemia:
ormultipleinsulininjectiontherapy:arandomized Impactoftechnologyonglycemiccontrolintype2
caveatemptor.DiabetesCare2016;39:1072–1074
controlledcrossovertrial.DiabetesMetabResRev diabetes:ameta-analysisofrandomizedtrialson
98. McTavishL,WiltshireE.Effectivetreatment 2015;31:61–68 continuous glucose monitoring and continuous
ofhypoglycemiainchildrenwithtype1diabetes:
113. BolinderJ,AntunaR,Geelhoed-DuijvestijnP, subcutaneous insulin infusion. Diabetes Obes
a randomized controlled clinical trial. Pediatr Kro€ger J, Weitgasser R. Novel glucose-sensing Metab2019;21:2619–2625
Diabetes2011;12(4pt2):381–387
technologyandhypoglycaemiaintype1diabetes: 127. BeckRW,RiddlesworthTD,RuedyK,etal.;
99. McTavishL,CorleyB,WeatherallM,Wiltshire
amulticentre,non-masked,randomisedcontrolled DIAMOND Study Group. Continuous glucose
E,KrebsJD.Weight-basedcarbohydratetreatment trial.Lancet2016;388:2254–2263 monitoring versus usual care in patients with
ofhypoglycaemiainpeoplewithtype1diabetes 114. HermannsN,SchumannB,KulzerB,Haak type 2 diabetes receiving multiple daily insulin
usinginsulinpumptherapy:arandomizedcrossover T.Theimpactofcontinuousglucosemonitoring injections: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med
clinicaltrial.DiabetMed2018;35:339–346 onlowinterstitialglucosevaluesandlowblood 2017;167:365–374
100. GeorgakopoulosK,KatsilambrosN,FragakiM, glucose values assessed by point-of-care blood 128. Ehrhardt NM, Chellappa M, Walker MS,
etal.Recoveryfrominsulin-inducedhypoglycemia glucose meters: results of a crossover trial. J Fonda SJ, Vigersky RA. The effect of real-time
after saccharose or glucose administration. Clin DiabetesSciTechnol2014;8:516–522 continuous glucose monitoring on glycemic
PhysiolBiochem1990;8:267–272
115. ReddyM,JugneeN,ElLaboudiA,Spanudakis controlinpatientswithtype2diabetesmellitus.
101. LaymanDK,CliftonP,GannonMC,Krauss E,AnantharajaS,OliverN.Arandomizedcontrolled JDiabetesSciTechnol2011;5:668–675
RM,NuttallFQ.Proteininoptimalhealth:heart pilot studyofcontinuousglucosemonitoringand 129. Haak T, Hanaire H, Ajjan R, Hermanns N,
disease and type 2 diabetes. Am J Clin Nutr flash glucose monitoring in people with Type 1 Riveline JP, Rayman G. Flash glucose-sensing
2008;87:1571S–1575S diabetesandimpairedawarenessofhypoglycaemia. technology as a replacement for blood glucose
102. PontiroliAE,CerianiV.Intranasalglucagon DiabetMed2018;35:483–490 monitoring for the management of insulin-treated
for hypoglycaemia in diabetic patients. An old 116. Riddlesworth T, Price D, Cohen N, Beck type 2 diabetes: a multicenter, open-label rando-
dreamisbecomingreality?DiabetesObesMetab RW. Hypoglycemic event frequency and the mizedcontrolledtrial.DiabetesTher2017;8:55–73
2018;20:1812–1816 effect of continuous glucose monitoring in 130. YooHJ,AnHG,ParkSY,etal.Useofareal
103. Stanton-FaySH,HamiltonK,ChadwickPM, adultswithtype1diabetesusingmultipledaily timecontinuousglucosemonitoringsystemasa
et al.; DAFNEplus study group.The DAFNEplus insulininjections.DiabetesTher2017;8:947–951 motivationaldeviceforpoorlycontrolledtype2
programme for sustained type 1 diabetes self 117. van Beers CAJ, DeVries JH, Kleijer SJ, diabetes.DiabetesResClinPract2008;82:73–79
management: intervention development using et al. Continuous glucose monitoring for 131. Garg S, Zisser H, Schwartz S, et al.
theBehaviourChangeWheel.DiabetMed2021; patients with type 1 diabetes and impaired Improvement in glycemic excursions with a
38:e14548 awareness of hypoglycaemia (IN CONTROL): a transcutaneous, real-time continuous glucoseS110 GlycemicTargets DiabetesCare Volume46,Supplement1,January2023
sensor:arandomizedcontrolledtrial.Diabetes Level Awareness in Diabetes Study (GLADIS). diabetes: a multicentre, randomised controlled
Care2006;29:44–50 DiabetMed2015;32:609–617 trial.Lancet2019;393:1138–1148
132. NewJP,AjjanR,PfeifferAFH,FreckmannG. 133. BergenstalRM,JohnsonM,PassiR,etal. 134. KitabchiAE,UmpierrezGE,MilesJM,Fisher
Continuous glucose monitoring in people with Automatedinsulin dosing guidance tooptimise JN. Hyperglycemic crises in adult patients with
diabetes: the randomized controlled Glucose insulin management in patients with type 2 diabetes.DiabetesCare2009;32:1335–1343