6. Glycemic Targets:Standards of
Care in Diabetes—2023
Diabetes Care 2023;46(Suppl. 1):S97–S110 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc23-S006
Nuha A. ElSayed, Grazia Aleppo,
Vanita R. Aroda, Raveendhara R. Bannuru,
Florence M. Brown, Dennis Bruemmer,
Billy S. Collins, Marisa E. Hilliard,
Diana Isaacs, Eric L. Johnson,
Scott Kahan, Kamlesh Khunti, Jose Leon,
Sarah K. Lyons, Mary Lou Perry,
Priya Prahalad, Richard E. Pratley,
Jane Jeffrie Seley, Robert C. Stanton, and
Robert A. Gabbay, on behalf of the
American Diabetes Association
The American Diabetes Association (ADA)“Standards of Care in Diabetes” in-
cludes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to
provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guide-
lines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional
Practice Committee, a multidisciplinary expert committee, are responsible for up-
dating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a de-
tailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the
evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full
list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction
and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are
invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.
ASSESSMENT OF GLYCEMIC CONTROL
Glycemic control is assessed by the A1C measurement, continuous glucose moni-
toring (CGM) using time in range (TIR) and/or glucose management indicator
(GMI), and blood glucose monitoring (BGM). A1C is the metric used to date in clini-
cal trials demonstrating the beneﬁts of improved glycemic control. Individual glu-
cose monitoring (discussed in detail in Section 7,“Diabetes Technology”)i sau s e f u l
tool for diabetes self-management, which includes meals, physical activity, and
medication adjustment, particularly in individuals taking insulin. CGM serves an in-
creasingly important role in the management of the effectiveness and safety of
treatment in many people with type 1 diabetes and in selected people with type 2
diabetes. Individuals on a variety of insulin treatment plans can beneﬁtf r o mC G M
with improved glucose control, decreased hypoglycemia, and enhanced self-efﬁcacy
(Section 7,“Diabetes Technology”)( 1 ) .
Glycemic Assessment
Recommendations
6.1 Assess glycemic status (A1C or other glycemic measurement such as time
in range or glucose management indicator)at least two times a year in
patients who are meeting treatment goals (and who have stable glycemic
control). E
6.2 Assess glycemic status at least quarterly and as needed in patients whose
therapy has recently changed and/or who are not meeting glycemic
goals. E
A1C reﬂects average glycemia over approximately 3 months. The performance of the
test is generally excellent for National Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program
Disclosure information for each author is
available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc23-SDIS.
Suggested citation: ElSayed NA, Aleppo G, Aroda
VR, et al., American Diabetes Association. 6.
Glycemic targets:Standards of Care in Diabetes—
2023. Diabetes Care 2023;46(Suppl. 1):S97–S110
© 2022 by the American Diabetes Association.
Readers may use this article as long as the
work is properly cited, the use is educational
and not for proﬁt, and the work is not altered.
More information is available at https://www.
diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.
6. GLYCEMIC TARGETS
Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023 S97(NGSP)-certiﬁed assays (ngsp.org). The
test is the primary tool for assessing gly-
cemic control and has a strong predictive
value for diabetes complications (2–4).
Thus, A1C testing should be performed
routinely in all people with diabetes at
initial assessment and as part of continu-
ing care. Measurement approximately
every 3 months determines whether pa-
tients’glycemic targets have been reached
and maintained. A 14-day CGM assess-
ment of TIR and GMI can serve as a
surrogate for A1C for use in clinical
management (5–9). The frequency of
A1C testing should depend on the clin-
ical situation, the treatment plan, and
the clinician ’sj u d g m e n t .T h eu s eo f
point-of-care A1C testing or CGM-
derived TIR and GMI may provide an
opportunity for more timely treatment
changes during encounters between pa-
tients and health care professionals.
People with type 2 diabetes with stable
glycemia well within target may do well
with A1C testing or other glucose as-
sessment only twice per year . Unstable
or intensively managed patients or people
not at goal with treatment adjustments
may require testing more frequently (every
3 months with interim assessments as
needed for safety) (10). CGM parameters
can be tracked in the clinic or via tele-
health to optimize diabetes management.
A1C Limitations
The A1C test is an indirect measure of av-
erage glycemia and, as such, is subject to
limitations. As with any laboratory test,
there is variability in the measurement of
A1C. Although A1C variability is lower on
an intraindividual basis than that of blood
glucose measurements, clinicians should
exercise judgment when using A1C as
the sole basis for assessing glycemic con-
trol, particularly if the result is close to
the threshold that might prompt a
change in medication therapy. For exam-
ple, conditions that affect red blood cell
turnover (hemolytic and other anemias,
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deﬁ-
ciency, recent blood transfusion, use of
drugs that stimulate erythropoiesis, end-
stage kidney disease, and pregnancy)
may result in discrepancies between the
A1C result and the patient’st r u em e a n
glycemia (11). Hemoglobin variants must
be considered, particularly when the
A1C result does not correlate with the
patient’s CGM or BGM levels. However,
most assays in use in the U.S. are accu-
rate in individuals who are heterozygous
for the most common variants (ngsp.
org/interf.asp). Other measures of aver-
age glycemia such as fructosamine and
1,5-anhydroglucitol are available, but
their translation into average glucose
levels and their prognostic signiﬁcance
are not as clear as for A1C and CGM.
Though some variability in the relation-
ship between average glucose levels
and A1C exists among different individ-
uals, in general the association between
mean glucose and A1C within an indi-
vidual correlates over time (12).
A1C does not provide a measure of
glycemic variability or hypoglycemia. For
patients prone to glycemic variability, es-
pecially people with type 1 diabetes or
type 2 diabetes with severe insulin deﬁ-
ciency, glycemic control is best evaluated
by the combination of results from BGM/
CGM and A1C. Discordant results be-
tween BGM/CGM and A1C can be the
result of the conditions outlined above
or glycemic variability, with BGM miss-
ing the extremes.
Correlation Between BGM and A1C
Table 6.1shows the correlation between
A1C levels and mean glucose levels based
on the international A1C-Derived Average
Glucose (ADAG) study, which assessed
the correlation between A1C and fre-
quent BGM and CGM in 507 adults (83%
non-Hispanic White) with type 1, type 2,
a n dn od i a b e t e s( 1 3 ) ,a n da ne m p i r i c a l
study of the average blood glucose levels
at premeal, postmeal, and bedtime asso-
ciated with speciﬁed A1C levels using
data from the ADAG trial (14). The Amer-
ican Diabetes Association (ADA) and the
American Association for Clinical Chemis-
try have determined that the correlation
(r = 0.92) in the ADAG trial is strong
enough to justify reporting both the A1C
result and the estimated average glucose
(eAG) result when a clinician orders the
A1C test. Clinicians should note that the
mean plasma glucose numbers inTable
6.1 are based on /C242,700 readings per
A1C measurement in the ADAG trial. In a
report, mean glucose measured with
CGM versus central laboratory–measured
A1C in 387 participants in three random-
ized trials demonstrated that A1C may
underestimate or overestimate mean glu-
cose in individuals (12). Thus, as sug-
gested, a patient’s BGM or CGM proﬁle
has considerable potential for optimizing
their glycemic management (13).
A1C Differences in Ethnic
Populations and Children
In the ADAG study, there were no signiﬁ-
cant differences among racial and ethnic
groups in the regression lines between
A1C and mean glucose, although the
study was underpowered to detect a dif-
ference and there was a trend toward a
difference between the African and Afri-
can American and the non-Hispanic White
cohorts, with higher A1C values observed
in the African and African American co-
horts compared with non-Hispanic White
cohorts for a given mean glucose. Other
studies have also demonstrated higher A1C
levels in African American participants than
in White participants at a given mean glu-
cose concentration (15,16). In contrast, a
recent report in Afro-Caribbean individu-
als found lower A1C relative to glucose
values (17). Taken together, A1C and glu-
cose parameters are essential for the op-
timal assessment of glycemic status.
A1C assays are available that do not
demonstrate a statistically signiﬁcant dif-
ference in individuals with hemoglobin
variants. Other assays have statistically
signiﬁcant interference, but the differ-
ence is not clinically signiﬁcant. Use of
an assay with such statistically signiﬁcant
interference may explain a report that
Table 6.1—Estimated average glucose
(eAG)
A1C (%) mg/dL* mmol/L
5 97 (76 –120) 5.4 (4.2 –6.7)
6 126 (100 –152) 7.0 (5.5 –8.5)
7 154 (123 –185) 8.6 (6.8 –10.3)
8 183 (147 –217) 10.2 (8.1 –12.1)
9 212 (170 –249) 11.8 (9.4 –13.9)
10 240 (193 –282) 13.4 (10.7 –15.7)
11 269 (217 –314) 14.9 (12.0 –17.5)
12 298 (240 –347) 16.5 (13.3 –19.3)
Data in parentheses are 95% CI. A calcula-
tor for converting A1C results into eAG, in
either mg/dL or mmol/L, is available at
professional.diabetes.org/eAG. *These esti-
m a t e sa r eb a s e do nA D A Gd a t ao f/C242,700
glucose measurements over 3 months per
A1C measurement in 507 adults with type 1,
type 2, or no diabetes. The correlation be-
tween A1C and average glucose was 0.92
(13,14). Adapted from Nathan et al. (13).
S98 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023for any level of mean glycemia, African
American individuals heterozygous for
the common hemoglobin variant HbS
had lower A1C by about 0.3 percentage
points when compared with those with-
out the trait (18,19). Another genetic
variant, X-linked glucose-6-phosphate de-
hydrogenase G202A, carried by 11% of
African American individuals, was associ-
ated with a decrease in A1C of about
0.8% in hemizygous men and 0.7% in
homozygous women compared with
those without the trait (20).
A small study comparing A1C to CGM
data in children with type 1 diabetes
found a highly statistically signiﬁcant cor-
relation between A1C and mean blood
glucose, although the correlation (r =
0.7) was signiﬁcantly lower than that in
the ADAG trial (21). Whether there are
clinically meaningful differences in how
A1C relates to average glucose in chil-
dren or in different ethnicities is an area
for further study (15,22,23). Until further
evidence is available, it seems prudent
to establish A1C goals in these popula-
tions with consideration of individualized
CGM, BGM, and A1C results. Limitations
in perfect alignment between glycemic
measurements do not interfere with the
usefulness of BGM/CGM for insulin dose
adjustments.
Glucose Assessment by Continuous
Glucose Monitoring
Recommendations
6.3 Standardized, single-page glucose
reports from continuous glucose
monitoring (CGM) devices with
visual cues, such as the ambula-
tory glucose proﬁle, should be
considered as a standard summary
for all CGM devices.E
6.4 Time in range is associated with
the risk of microvascular com-
plications and can be used for
assessment of glycemic control.
Additionally, time below range
and time above range are use-
ful parameters for the evaluation
of the treatment plan ( Table
6.2). C
CGM is rapidly improving diabetes man-
agement. As stated in the recommenda-
tions, time in range (TIR) is a useful
metric of glycemic control and glucose
patterns, and it correlates well with A1C
in most studies (24–29). New data sup-
port the premise that increased TIR cor-
relates with the risk of complications.
The studies supporting this assertion
are reviewed in more detail in Section 7,
“Diabetes Technology”; they include cross-
sectional data and cohort studies (30–32)
demonstrating TIR as an acceptable end
point for clinical trials moving forward
and that it can be used for assessment
of glycemic control. Additionally, time be-
low range (<70 and<54 mg/dL [3.9 and
3.0 mmol/L]) and time above range
(>180 mg/dL [10.0 mmol/L]) are useful
parameters for insulin dose adjustments
and reevaluation of the treatment plan.
For many people with diabetes, glu-
cose monitoring is key for achieving
glycemic targets. Major clinical trials of in-
sulin-treated patients have included BGM
as part of multifactorial interventions to
demonstrate the beneﬁto fi n t e n s i v eg l y -
cemic control on diabetes complications
(33). BGM is thus an integral component
of effective therapy of patients taking in-
sulin. In recent years, CGM has become a
standard method for glucose monitoring
for most adults with type 1 diabetes (34).
Both approaches to glucose monitor-
ing allow patients to evaluate individ-
ual responses to therapy and assess
whether glycemic targets are being safely
achieved. The international consensus on
TIR provides guidance on standardized
CGM metrics (Table 6.2) and considera-
tions for clinical interpretation and care
( 3 5 ) .T om a k et h e s em e t r i c sm o r ea c t i o n -
able, standardized reports with visual
cues, such as the ambulatory glucose pro-
ﬁle (Fig 6.1), are recommended (35) and
may help the patient and the health care
professional better interpret the data to
guide treatment decisions (24,27). BGM
and CGM can be useful to guide medical
nutrition therapy and physical activity,
prevent hypoglycemia, and aid medication
management. While A1C is currently the
primary measure to guide glucose man-
agement and a valuable risk marker for
developing diabetes complications, the
CGM metrics TIR (with time below range
and time above range) and GMI provide
t h ei n s i g h t sf o ram o r ep e r s o n a l i z e dd i a -
betes management plan. The incorpora-
tion of these metrics into clinical practice
is in evolution, and remote access to
these data can be critical for telehealth. A
rapid optimization and harmonization of
CGM terminology and remote access is
occurring to meet patient and health care
professional needs (36–38). The patient’s
speciﬁc needs and goals should dictate
BGM frequency and timing and con-
sideration of CGM use. Please refer to
Section 7, “Diabetes Technology, ” for
a more complete discussion of the use
of BGM and CGM.
With the advent of new technology,
CGM has evolved rapidly in both accu-
racy and affordability. As such, many pa-
tients have these data available to assist
with self-management and their health
care professionals’assessment of glycemic
status. Reports can be generated from
CGM that will allow the health care
professional and person with diabetes
to determine TIR, calculate GMI, and
Table 6.2—Standardized CGM metrics for clinical care
1. Number of days CGM device is worn (recommend 14 days)
2. Percentage of time CGM device is active (recommend 70%
of data from 14 days)
3. Mean glucose
4. Glucose management indicator
5. Glycemic variability (%CV) target#36%*
6. TAR: % of readings and time>250 mg/dL (>13.9 mmol/L) Level 2 hyperglycemia
7. TAR: % of readings and time 181–250 mg/dL (10.1–13.9 mmol/L) Level 1 hyperglycemia
8. TIR: % of readings and time 70–180 mg/dL (3.9–10.0 mmol/L) In range
9. TBR: % of readings and time 54–69 mg/dL (3.0–3.8 mmol/L) Level 1 hypoglycemia
10. TBR: % of readings and time<54 mg/dL (<3.0 mmol/L) Level 2 hypoglycemia
CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; CV, coefﬁcient of variation; TAR, time above range;
TBR, time below range; TIR, time in range. *Some studies suggest that lower %CV targets
(<33%) provide additional protection against hypoglycemia for those receiving insulin or sul-
fonylureas. Adapted from Battelino et al. (35).
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S99AGP Report: Continuous Glucose Monitoring
Test Patient   DOB: Jan 1, 1970
14 Days: August 8–August 21, 2021    
Time CGM Active: 100%
Glucose Metrics  
Average Glucose........................................... 175 mg/dL
Goal: <154 mg/dL
Glucose Management Indicator (GMI) ............... 7.5%
Goal: <7%
Glucose Variability............................................ 45.5%
Goal: <36%
AGP is a summary of glucose values from the report period, with median (50%) and other percentiles shown as if they occurred in a single day .
Time in Ranges    Goals for T ype 1 and T ype 2 Diabetes
Very High 20%
High 24%
Target
Low 5%
Very Low 5%
46% Goal: >70%
Goal: <5%
Goal: <1%
44% Goal: <25%
10% Goal: <4%
Each 1% time in range = ~15 minutes
mg/dL
250
180
70
54
Target
Range
12am 3am 6am 9am 12pm 3pm 6pm 9pm 12am
350
mg/dL
250
   180
     70
54
0
95%
75%
50%
25%
5%
12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 12pm 
Sunday Monday T uesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
180
70
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
180
70
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
mg/dLmg/dL
1313
Figure 6.1— Key points included in standard ambulatory glucose proﬁle (AGP) report. Reprinted from Holt et al. (34).
S100 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023assess hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, and
glycemic variability. As discussed in a re-
cent consensus document, a report for-
matted as shown in Fig. 6.1 can be
generated (35). Published data from two
retrospective studies suggest a strong cor-
relation between TIR and A1C, with a
goal of 70% TIR aligning with an A1C of
/C247% (8,26). Note the goals of therapy
next to each metric inFig. 6.1(e.g., low,
<4%; very low,<1%) as values to guide
changes in therapy.
GLYCEMIC GOALS
For glycemic goals in older adults, please
refer to Section 13,“Older Adults.” For
glycemic goals in children, please refer to
Section 14, “Children and Adolescents.”
For glycemic goals during pregnancy,
please refer to Section 15,“Management
of Diabetes in Pregnancy.” Overall, re-
gardless of the population being served,
it is critical for the glycemic targets to be
woven into the overall person-centered
strategy. For example, in a very young
child, safety and simplicity may outweigh
the need for glycemic stability in the
short run. Simpliﬁcation may decrease
parental anxiety and build trust and
conﬁdence, which could support fur-
ther strengthening of glycemic targets
and self-efﬁcacy. In healthy older adults,
there is no empiric need to loosen con-
trol; however, less stringent A1C goals
may be appropriate for patients with
limited life expectancy or where the
harms of treatment are greater than
the beneﬁts (39,40).
However, the health care professional
needs to work with an individual and
should consider adjusting targets for
simplifying the treatment plan if this
change is needed to improve safety and
medication-taking behavior. Setting
goals by face-to-face or remote consul-
tations has been shown to be more ef-
fective than usual care for glycemic
control in type 2 diabetes for fasting
plasma glucose and glycated hemoglo-
bin (41).
Recommendations
6.5a An A1C goal for many non-
pregnant adults of <7% (53
mmol/mol) without signiﬁcant
hypoglycemia is appropriate.A
6.5b If using ambulatory glucose
proﬁle/glucose management in-
dicator to assess glycemia, a
parallel goal for many nonpreg-
nant adults is time in range of
>70% with time below range
<4% and time <54 mg/dL
<1%. For those with frailty or
at high risk of hypoglycemia, a
target of >50% time in range
with <1% time below range
is recommended. (See Fig. 6.1
and Table 6.2.) B
6.6 On the basis of health care
professional judgment and pa-
tient preference, achievement
of lower A1C levels than the
goal of 7% may be acceptable
and even beneﬁcial if it can be
achieved safely without signiﬁ-
cant hypoglycemia or other ad-
verse effects of treatment.B
6.7 Less stringent A1C goals (such
as <8% [64 mmol/mol]) may
be appropriate for patients with
limited life expectancy or where
the harms of treatment are
greater than the beneﬁts. Health
care professionals should con-
sider deintensiﬁcation of ther-
apy if appropriate to reduce
the risk of hypoglycemia in pa-
tients with inappropriate strin-
gent A1C targets.B
6.8 Reassess glycemic targets based
on the individualized criteria in
Fig. 6.2. E
6.9 Setting a glycemic goal during
consultations is likely to improve
patient outcomes.E
A1C and Microvascular Complications
Hyperglycemia deﬁnes diabetes, and gly-
cemic control is fundamental to diabetes
management. The Diabetes Control and
Complications Trial (DCCT) (33), a prospec-
tive randomized controlled trial of inten-
sive (mean A1C about 7% [53 mmol/mol])
versus standard (mean A1C about 9%
[75 mmol/mol]) glycemic control in peo-
ple with type 1 diabetes, showed deﬁni-
tively that better glycemic control is
associated with 50–76% reductions in
rates of development and progression
of microvascular (retinopathy, neurop-
athy, and diabetic kidney disease) com-
plications. Follow-up of the DCCT cohorts
in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Inter-
ventions and Complications (EDIC) study
(42,43) demonstrated persistence of
these microvascular beneﬁts over two
decades despite the fact that the
glycemic separation between the treat-
ment groups diminished and disap-
peared during follow-up.
The Kumamoto Study (44) and UK
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS)
(45,46) con ﬁrmed that intensive gly-
cemic control signi ﬁcantly decreased
rates of microvascular complications
in people with short-duration type 2
diabetes. Long-term follow-up of the
UKPDS cohorts showed enduring ef-
fects of early glycemic control on most
microvascular complications (47).
Therefore, achieving A1C targets of
<7% (53 mmol/mol) has been shown
to reduce microvascular complications
of type 1 and type 2 diabetes when in-
stituted early in the course of disease
(2,48). Findings from the DCCT (33) and
UKPDS (49) studies demonstrate a curvi-
linear relationship between A1C and mi-
crovascular complications. Such analyses
suggest that, on a population level, the
greatest number of complications will
b ea v e r t e db yt a k i n gp a t i e n t sf r o mv e r y
poor control to fair/good control. These
analyses also suggest that further lower-
ing of A1C from 7 to 6% (53 mmol/mol
to 42 mmol/mol) is associated with
further reduction in the risk of micro-
vascular complications, although the
absolute risk reductions become much
smaller. The implication of theseﬁndings
is that there is no need to deintensify
therapy for an individual with an A1C
b e t w e e n6a n d7 %i nt h es e t t i n go f
low hypoglycemia risk with a long life
expectancy. There are now newer agents
that do not cause hypoglycemia, making
it possible to maintain glucose control
without the risk of hypoglycemia (see
Section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches
to Glycemic Treatment”).
Given the substantially increased risk of
hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes and with
polypharmacy in type 2 diabetes, the risks
of lower glycemic targets may outweigh
the potential beneﬁts on microvascular
complications. Three landmark trials (Ac-
tion to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Dia-
betes [ACCORD], Action in Diabetes and
Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron
MR Controlled Evaluation [ADVANCE],
and Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial [VADT])
were conducted to test the effects of
near normalization of blood glucose
on cardiovascular outcomes in individ-
uals with long-standing type 2 diabe-
tes and either known cardiovascular
disease (CVD) or high cardiovascular
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S101risk. These trials showed that lower
A1C levels were associated with reduced
onset or progression of some micro-
vascular complications (50–52).
The concerning mortality ﬁndings
in the ACCORD trial discussed below
and the relatively intense efforts re-
quired to achieve near euglycemia should
also be considered when setting gly-
cemic targets for individuals with long-
standing diabetes, such as those popula-
tions studied in ACCORD, ADVANCE, and
VADT. Findings from these studies sug-
gest caution is needed in treating diabe-
tes to near-normal A1C goals in people
with long-standing type 2 diabetes with
or at signiﬁcant risk of CVD.
These landmark studies need to be
considered with an important caveat;
glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor
agonists and sodium–glucose cotrans-
porter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors were not ap-
proved at the time of these trials. As
such, these agents with established car-
diovascular and renal beneﬁts appear to
be safe and beneﬁcial in this group of
individuals at high risk for cardiorenal
complications. Randomized clinical trials
examining these agents for cardiovas-
cular safety were not designed to test
higher versus lower A1C; therefore,
beyond post hoc analysis of these tri-
als, we do not have evidence that it is
the glucose lowering by these agents that
confers the CVD and renal beneﬁt( 5 3 ) .
As such, based on clinician judgment and
patient preferences, select patients, espe-
cially those with little comorbidity and a
long life expectancy, may beneﬁtf r o m
adopting more intensive glycemic targets
if they can achieve them safely and with-
out hypoglycemia or signiﬁcant thera-
peutic burden.
A1C and Cardiovascular Disease
Outcomes
Cardiovascular Disease and Type 1 Diabetes
CVD is a more common cause of death
than microvascular complications in pop-
ulations with diabetes. There is evidence
for a cardiovascular beneﬁto fi n t e n s i v e
glycemic control after long-term follow-
up of cohorts treated early in the course
of type 1 diabetes. In the DCCT, there
was a trend toward lower risk of CVD
events with intensive control. In the
9-year post-DCCT follow-up of the
EDIC cohort, participants previously
randomized to the intensive arm had
as i g n iﬁcant 57% reduction in the risk
of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI),
stroke, or cardiovascular death com-
pared with those previously randomized
to the standard arm (54). The beneﬁto f
intensive glycemic control in this cohort
with type 1 diabetes has been shown
to persist for several decades (55) and
to be associated with a modest reduction
in all-cause mortality (56).
Cardiovascular Disease and Type 2 Diabetes
In type 2 diabetes, there is evidence
that more intensive treatment of glyce-
mia in newly diagnosed patients may
reduce long-term CVD rates. In addition,
data from the Swedish National Diabe-
tes Registry (56) and the Joint Asia Dia-
betes Evaluation (JADE) demonstrate
greater proportions of people with dia-
betes being diagnosed at<40 years of
age and a demonstrably increased bur-
den of heart disease and years of life
lost in people diagnosed at a younger
age (57–60). Thus, to prevent both mi-
crovascular and macrovascular compli-
cations of diabetes, there is a major call
to overcome therapeutic inertia and
treat to target for an individual patient
(60,61). During the UKPDS, there was a
16% reduction in CVD events (combined
fatal or nonfatal MI and sudden death)
in the intensive glycemic control arm
that did not reach statistical signiﬁcance
(P = 0.052), and there was no sugges-
tion of beneﬁt on other CVD outcomes
(e.g., stroke). Similar to the DCCT/EDIC,
after 10 years of observational follow-
up, those originally randomized to in-
tensive glycemic control had signiﬁcant
long-term reductions in MI (15% with
sulfonylurea or insulin as initial pharma-
cotherapy, 33% with metformin as ini-
tial pharmacotherapy) and in all-cause
mortality (13% and 27%, respectively)
(47).
ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VADT sug-
gested no signiﬁcant reduction in CVD
outcomes with intensive glycemic control
in participants followed for shorter dura-
tions (3.5–5.6 years) and who had more
advanced type 2 diabetes and CVD risk
than the UKPDS participants. All three tri-
als were conducted in relatively older par-
ticipants with a longer known duration
of diabetes (mean duration 8–11 years)
and either CVD or multiple cardio-
vascular risk factors. The target A1C
among intensive-control participants
was <6% (42 mmol/mol) in ACCORD,
<6.5% (48 mmol/mol) in ADVANCE,
low
Patient / Disease Features
Risks potentially associated
with hypoglycemia and
other drug adverse effects
Disease duration
Life expectancy
Important comorbidities
Established vascular
complications
Patient preference
Resources and support
system
More stringent
Approach to Individualization of Glycemic Targets
Less stringentA1C 7%
high
long-standing
short
severe
severe
preference for less
burdensome therapy
limited
Potentially modifiable Usually not modifiable
newly diagnosed
long
absent
absent
highly motivated, excellent
self-care capabilities
readily available
few / mild
few / mild
Figure 6.2— Patient and disease factors used to determine optimal glycemic targets. Character-
istics and predicaments toward the left justify more stringent efforts to lower A1C; those to-
ward the right suggest less stringent efforts. A1C 7% = 53 mmol/mol. Adapted with permission
from Inzucchi et al. (71).
S102 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023and a 1.5% reduction in A1C compared
with control participants in VADT,
with achieved A1C of 6.4% vs. 7.5%
(46 mmol/mol vs. 58 mmol/mol) in
ACCORD, 6.5% vs. 7.3% (48 mmol/mol
vs. 56 mmol/mol) in ADVANCE, and 6.9%
vs. 8.4% (52 mmol/mol vs. 68 mmol/mol)
in VADT. Details of these studies are
reviewed extensively in the joint ADA
position statement “Intensive Glycemic
Control and the Prevention of Cardio-
vascular Events: Implications of the
ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA Diabetes
Trials” (61).
The glycemic control comparison in
ACCORD was halted early due to an in-
creased mortality rate in the intensive
compared with the standard treatment
arm (1.41% vs. 1.14% per year; hazard
ratio 1.22 [95% CI 1.01–1.46]), with a
similar increase in cardiovascular deaths.
Analysis of the ACCORD data did not
identify a clear explanation for the excess
mortality in the intensive treatment arm
(62).
Longer-term follow-up has shown no
evidence of cardiovascular beneﬁt, or
harm, in the ADVANCE trial (63). The end-
stage renal disease rate was lower in the
intensive treatment group over follow-up.
However, 10-year follow-up of the VADT
cohort (64) did demonstrate a reduction
in the risk of cardiovascular events (52.7
[control group] vs. 44.1 [intervention
group] events per 1,000 person-years)
with no bene ﬁt in cardiovascular or
overall mortality. Heterogeneity of mor-
tality effects across studies was noted,
which may reﬂect differences in glyce-
mic targets, therapeutic approaches,
and, importantly, population characteris-
tics (65).
Mortality ﬁndings in ACCORD (62) and
subgroup analyses of VADT (66) suggest
that the potential risks of intensive glyce-
mic control may outweigh its beneﬁts
in higher-risk individuals. In all three
trials, severe hypoglycemia was signiﬁ-
cantly more likely in participants who
were randomly assigned to the inten-
sive glycemic control arm. Individuals
with a long duration of diabetes, a known
history of hypoglycemia, advanced ath-
erosclerosis, or advanced age/frailty may
beneﬁt from less aggressive targets
(67,68).
As discussed further below, severe
hypoglycemia is a potent marker of high
absolute risk of cardiovascular events
and mortality (69). Therefore, health
care professionals should be vigilant
in preventing hypoglycemia and should
n o ta g g r e s s i v e l ya t t e m p tt oa c h i e v e
near-normal A1C levels in people in
whom such targets cannot be safely
and reasonably achieved. As discussed
in Section 9,“Pharmacologic Approaches
to Glycemic Treatment,” addition of spe-
ciﬁc SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1 receptor
agonists that have demonstrated CVD
beneﬁt is recommended in patients
with established CVD, chronic kidney
disease, and heart failure. As outlined in
more detail in Section 9,“Pharmacologic
Approaches to Glycemic Treatment,” and
Section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and
Risk Management,” the cardiovascular
beneﬁts of SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1 re-
ceptor agonists are not contingent upon
A1C lowering; therefore, initiation can
b ec o n s i d e r e di np e o p l ew i t ht y p e2
diabetes and CVD independent of the
current A1C or A1C goal or metformin
therapy. Based on these considera-
tions, the following two strategies are
offered (70):
1. If already on dual therapy or multi-
ple glucose-lowering therapies and
not on an SGLT2 inhibitor or GLP-1
receptor agonist, consider switching
to one of these agents with proven
cardiovascular beneﬁt.
2. Introduce SGLT2 inhibitors or GLP-1
receptor agonists in people with CVD
at A1C goal (independent of met-
formin) for cardiovascular beneﬁt,
independent of baseline A1C or in-
dividualized A1C target.
Setting and Modifying A1C Goals
Numerous factors must be considered
when setting glycemic targets. The ADA
proposes general targets appropriate
for many people but emphasizes the
importance of individualization based
on key patient characteristics. Glycemic
targets must be individualized in the
context of shared decision-making to
address individual needs and prefer-
ences and consider characteristics that
inﬂuence risks and beneﬁts of therapy;
this approach may optimize engagement
and self-efﬁcacy.
The factors to consider in individualiz-
ing goals are depicted inFig. 6.2.T h i sﬁg-
ure is not designed to be applied rigidly
but to be used as a broad construct to
guide clinical decision-making (71) and
engage people with type 1 and type 2 di-
abetes in shared decision-making. More
aggressive targets may be recommended
if they can be achieved safely and
with an acceptable burden of therapy
and if life expectancy is suf ﬁcient to
reap the beneﬁts of stringent targets.
Less stringent targets (A1C up to 8%
[64 mmol/mol]) may be recommended
if the patient’sl i f ee x p e c t a n c yi ss u c h
that the beneﬁts of an intensive goal
may not be realized, or if the risks and
burdens outweigh the potential bene-
ﬁts. Severe or frequent hypoglycemia
is an absolute indication for the modi-
ﬁcation of treatment plans, including
setting higher glycemic goals.
Diabetes is a chronic disease that pro-
gresses over decades. Thus, a goal that
might be appropriate for an individual
early in the course of their diabetes may
change over time. Newly diagnosed pa-
tients and/or those without comorbidities
that limit life expectancy may beneﬁt
from intensive control proven to prevent
microvascular complications. Both DCCT/
EDIC and UKPDS demonstrated metabolic
memory, or a legacy effect, in which aﬁ-
nite period of intensive control yielded
beneﬁts that extended for decades after
that control ended. Thus, aﬁnite period
of intensive control to near-normal A1C
may yield enduring beneﬁts even if con-
trol is subsequently deintensiﬁed as pa-
tient characteristics change. Over time,
comorbidities may emerge, decreasing life
expectancy and thereby decreasing the
potential to reap beneﬁts from intensive
control. Also, with longer disease dura-
tion, diabetes may become more difﬁ-
cult to control, with increasing risks and
burdens of therapy. Thus, A1C targets
should be reevaluated over time to bal-
ance the risks and beneﬁts as patient
factors change.
Recommended glycemic targets for
many nonpregnant adults are shown
in Table 6.3. The recommendations in-
clude blood glucose levels that appear
to correlate with achievement of an
A1C of <7% (53 mmol/mol). Pregnancy
recommendations are discussed in more
detail in Section 15, “Management of
Diabetes in Pregnancy.”
The issue of preprandial versus post-
prandial BGM targets is complex (72,73).
Elevated postchallenge (2-h oral glucose
tolerance test) glucose values have been
associated with increased cardiovascular
risk independent of fasting plasma glu-
cose in some epidemiologic studies,
whereas intervention trials have not
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S103shown postprandial glucose to be a
cardiovascular risk factor independent
of A1C. In people with diabetes, surro-
gate measures of vascular pathology,
such as endothelial dysfunction, are
negatively affected by postprandial hy-
perglycemia. It is clear that postprandial
hyperglycemia, like preprandial hyper-
glycemia, contributes to elevated A1C
levels, with its relative contribution
being greater at A1C levels that are
closer to 7% (53 mmol/mol). However,
outcome studies have shown A1C to
be the primary predictor of complica-
tions, and landmark trials of glycemic
c o n t r o ls u c ha st h eD C C Ta n dU K P D S
relied overwhelmingly on preprandial
BGM. Additionally, a randomized con-
trolled trial in patients with known CVD
found no CVD beneﬁt of insulin treat-
ment plans targeting postprandial glu-
cose compared with those targeting
preprandial glucose (73). Therefore, it
is reasonable to check postprandial glu-
cose in individuals who have premeal
glucose values within target but A1C
values above target. In addition, when
intensifying insulin therapy, measuring
postprandial plasma glucose 1–2ha f -
ter the start of a meal (using BGM or
CGM) and using treatments aimed at
reducing postprandial plasma glucose
values to <180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L)
may help to lower A1C.
An analysis of data from 470 partici-
pants in the ADAG study (237 with
type 1 diabetes and 147 with type 2
diabetes) found that the glucose ranges
highlighted in Table 6.1 are adequate
to meet targets and decrease hypogly-
cemia (14). Theseﬁndings support that
premeal glucose targets may be relaxed
without undermining overall glycemic
control as measured by A1C. These data
prompted the revision in the ADA-
recommended premeal glucose target
to 80 –130 mg/dL (4.4 –7.2 mmol/L)
but did not affect the de ﬁnition of
hypoglycemia.
HYPOGLYCEMIA
Recommendations
6.10 Occurrence and risk for hypogly-
cemia should be reviewed at ev-
ery encounter and investigated
as indicated. Awareness of hypo-
glycemia should be considered
using validated tools.C
6.11 Glucose (approximately 15–20 g)
is the preferred treatment for
the conscious individual with
blood glucose <70 mg/dL (3.9
mmol/L), although any form of
carbohydrate that contains glu-
cose may be used. Fifteen mi-
nutes after treatment, if blood
glucose monitoring (BGM) shows
continued hypoglycemia, the
treatment should be repeated.
Once the BGM or glucose pat-
tern is trending up, the individ-
ual should consume a meal or
snack to prevent recurrence of
hypoglycemia.B
6.12 Glucagon should be prescribed
for all individuals at increased
risk of level 2 or 3 hypoglyce-
mia, so that it is available should
it be needed. Caregivers, school
personnel, or family members
providing support to these indi-
viduals should know where it is
and when and how to admin-
ister it. Glucagon administra-
tion is not limited to health
care professionals. E
6.13 Hypoglycemia unawareness or
one or more episodes of level 3
hypoglycemia should trigger
hypoglycemia avoidance educa-
tion and reevaluation and ad-
justment of the treatment plan
to decrease hypoglycemia.E
6.14 Insulin-treated patients with hy-
poglycemia unawareness, one
level 3 hypoglycemic event, or a
pattern of unexplained level 2
hypoglycemia should be advised
to raise their glycemic targets
to strictly avoid hypoglycemia
for at least several weeks in or-
der to partially reverse hypogly-
cemia unawareness and reduce
risk of future episodes.A
6.15 Ongoing assessment of cogni-
tive function is suggested with
increased vigilance for hypogly-
cemia by the clinician, patient,
and caregivers if impaired or
declining cognition is found.B
Hypoglycemia is the major limiting fac-
tor in the glycemic management of
type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Recommen-
dations regarding the classiﬁcation of
hypoglycemia are outlined inTable 6.4
(74–83). Level 1 hypoglycemia is deﬁned
as a measurable glucose concentration
<70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) but$54 mg/dL
(3.0 mmol/L). A blood glucose concentra-
tion of 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) has been
recognized as a threshold for neuroendo-
crine responses to falling glucose in peo-
ple without diabetes. Because many
people with diabetes demonstrate im-
paired counterregulatory responses to
hypoglycemia and/or experience hypo-
glycemia unawareness, a measured glu-
cose level <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) is
considered clinically important (indepen-
dent of the severity of acute hypoglyce-
mic symptoms). Level 2 hypoglycemia
(deﬁned as a blood glucose concentration
<54 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L]) is the threshold
at which neuroglycopenic symptoms be-
gin to occur and requires immediate ac-
tion to resolve the hypoglycemic event. If
a patient has level 2 hypoglycemia with-
out adrenergic or neuroglycopenic symp-
toms, they likely have hypoglycemia
unawareness (discussed further below).
This clinical scenario warrants investiga-
tion and review of the treatment plan
(75,79). Use Clarke score, Gold score,
or Pedersen-Bjergaard score to assess
impaired awareness (76). Lastly, level 3
hypoglycemia is de ﬁned as a severe
Table 6.3—Summary of glycemic recommendations for many nonpregnant
adults with diabetes
A1C <7.0% (53 mmol/mol)*#
Preprandial capillary plasma glucose 80 –130 mg/dL* (4.4–7.2 mmol/L)
Peak postprandial capillary plasma glucose† <180 mg/dL* (10.0 mmol/L)
*More or less stringent glycemic goals may be appropriate for individual patients. #CGM
may be used to assess glycemic target as noted in Recommendation 6.5b and Fig. 6.1.
Goals should be individualized based on duration of diabetes, age/life expectancy, comorbid
conditions, known CVD or advanced microvascular complications, hypoglycemia unaware-
ness, and individual patient considerations (as perFig. 6.2). †Postprandial glucose may be
targeted if A1C goals are not met despite reaching preprandial glucose goals. Postprandial
glucose measurements should be made 1–2 h after the beginning of the meal, generally
peak levels in people with diabetes.
S104 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023event characterized by altered mental
and/or physical functioning that re-
quires assistance from another person
for recovery.
Symptoms of hypoglycemia include,
but are not limited to, shakiness, irrita-
bility, confusion, tachycardia, and hun-
ger . Hypoglycemia may be inconvenient
or frightening to people with diabetes.
Level 3 hypoglycemia may be recognized
or unrecognized and can progress to loss
of consciousness, seizure, coma, or death.
Hypoglycemia is reversed by administra-
tion of rapid-acting glucose or glucagon.
Hypoglycemia can cause acute harm to
t h ep e r s o nw i t hd i a b e t e so ro t h e r s ,e s p e -
cially if it causes falls, motor vehicle acci-
dents, or other injury. Recurrent level 2
hypoglycemia and/or level 3 hypoglycemia
is an urgent medical issue and requires in-
tervention with medical treatment plan
adjustment, behavioral intervention, and,
in some cases, use of technology to assist
with hypoglycemia prevention and identi-
ﬁcation (76,79–82). A large cohort study
suggested that among older adults with
type 2 diabetes, a history of level 3 hy-
poglycemia was associated with greater
risk of dementia (84). Conversely, in a
substudy of the ACCORD trial, cognitive
impairment at baseline or decline in
cognitive function during the trial was
signiﬁcantly associated with subsequent
episodes of level 3 hypoglycemia (85).
Evidence from DCCT/EDIC, which in-
volved adolescents and younger adults
with type 1 diabetes, found no asso-
ciation between frequency of level 3
hypoglycemia and cognitive decline
(86).
Studies of rates of level 3 hypoglyce-
mia that rely on claims data for hospi-
talization, emergency department visits,
and ambulance use substantially under-
estimate rates of level 3 hypoglycemia
(87) yet reveal a high burden of hypo-
glycemia in adults over 60 years of
age in the community (88). African
American individuals are at substantially
increased risk of level 3 hypoglycemia
(88,89). In addition to age and race,
other important risk factors found in
a community-based epidemiologic co-
hort of older adults with type 2 diabetes
include insulin use, poor or moderate
versus good glycemic control, albumin-
uria, and poor cognitive function (88).
Level 3 hypoglycemia was associated
with mortality in participants in both
the standard and the intensive glyce-
mia arms of the ACCORD trial, but the
relationships between hypoglycemia,
achieved A1C, and treatment intensity
were not straightforward. An associa-
tion of level 3 hypoglycemia with mor-
tality was also found in the ADVANCE
trial (90). An association between self-
reported level 3 hypoglycemia and 5-year
mortality has also been reported in clinical
practice (91). Glucose variability is also
associated with an increased risk for
hypoglycemia (92).
Young children with type 1 diabetes
and the elderly, including those with
type 1 and type 2 diabetes (84,93), are
noted as particularly vulnerable to hy-
poglycemia because of their reduced
ability to recognize hypoglycemic symp-
toms and effectively communicate their
needs. Individualized glucose targets,
patient education, nutrition interven-
tion (e.g., bedtime snack to prevent
overnight hypoglycemia when speci ﬁ-
cally needed to treat low blood glu-
cose), physical activity management,
medication adjustment, glucose moni-
toring, and routine clinical surveillance
may improve patient outcomes (94).
CGM with automated low glucose sus-
pend and hybrid closed-loop systems
have been shown to be effective in re-
ducing hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes
(95). For people with type 1 diabetes
with level 3 hypoglycemia and hypogly-
cemia unawareness that persists despite
medical treatment, human islet trans-
plantation may be an option, but the ap-
proach remains experimental (96,97).
In 2015, the ADA changed its prepran-
dial glycemic target from 70–130 mg/dL
(3.9–7.2 mmol/L) to 80 –130 mg/dL
(4.4–7.2 mmol/L). This change reﬂects
the results of the ADAG study, which
demonstrated that higher glycemic tar-
gets corresponded to A1C goals (14).
An additional goal of raising the lower
range of the glycemic target was to
limit overtreatment and provide a safety
margin in patients titrating glucose-
lowering drugs such as insulin to gly-
cemic targets.
Hypoglycemia Treatment
Health care professionals should con-
tinue to counsel patients to treat hypo-
glycemia with fast-acting carbohydrates
at the hypoglycemia alert value of
70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) or less. This
should be reviewed at each patient
visit. Hypoglycemia treatment requires
ingestion of glucose- or carbohydrate-
containing foods (98 –100). The acute
glycemic response correlates better with
the glucose content of food than with
the carbohydrate content of food. Pure
glucose is the preferred treatment, but
any form of carbohydrate that contains
glucose will raise blood glucose. Added
f a tm a yr e t a r da n dt h e np r o l o n gt h e
acute glycemic response. In type 2 dia-
betes, ingested protein may increase insu-
lin response without increasing plasma
glucose concentrations (101). Therefore,
carbohydrate sources high in protein should
not be used to treat or prevent hypogly-
cemia. Ongoing insulin activity or insulin
secretagogues may lead to recurrent hy-
poglycemia unless more food is ingested
after recovery. Once the glucose returns
to normal, the individual should be coun-
seled to eat a meal or snack to prevent
recurrent hypoglycemia.
Glucagon
The use of glucagon is indicated for the
treatment of hypoglycemia in people un-
able or unwilling to consume carbohy-
drates by mouth. Those in close contact
with, or having custodial care of, people
with hypoglycemia-prone diabetes (fam-
ily members, roommates, school person-
nel, childcare professionals, correctional
institution staff, or coworkers) should be
instructed on the use of glucagon, in-
cluding where the glucagon product is
kept and when and how to administer
it. An individual does not need to be
a health care professional to safely
Table 6.4—Classiﬁcation of hypoglycemia
Glycemic criteria/description
Level 1 Glucose <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) and$54 mg/dL (3.0 mmol/L)
Level 2 Glucose <54 mg/dL (3.0 mmol/L)
Level 3 A severe event characterized by altered mental and/or physical status requiring
assistance for treatment of hypoglycemia
Reprinted from Agiostratidou et al. (74).
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S105administer glucagon. In addition to tra-
ditional glucagon injection powder that
requires reconstitution prior to injec-
tion, intranasal glucagon and ready-to-
inject glucagon preparations for sub-
cutaneous injection are available and
may be beneﬁcial in view of safety, ef-
ﬁcacy, and ease of use. Care should be
taken to ensure that glucagon products
are not expired (102).
Hypoglycemia Prevention
Hypoglycemia prevention is a critical
component of diabetes management.
BGM and, for some individuals, CGM
are essential tools to assess therapy
and detect incipient hypoglycemia. Peo-
ple with diabetes should understand sit-
uations that increase their risk of
hypoglycemia, such as when fasting for
laboratory tests or procedures, when
meals are delayed, during and after the
consumption of alcohol, during and af-
ter intense physical activity, and during
sleep. Hypoglycemia may increase the
risk of harm to self or others, such as
when driving. Teaching people with dia-
betes to balance insulin use and carbo-
hydrate intake and physical activity are
necessary, but these strategies are not
always suf ﬁcient for prevention (77,
103–105). Formal training programs to
increase awareness of hypoglycemia
and to develop strategies to decrease
hypoglycemia have been developed, in-
cluding the Blood Glucose Awareness
Training Program, Dose Adjusted for
Normal Eating (DAFNE), and DAFNE-
plus. Conversely, some individuals with
type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes and
hypoglycemia who have a fear of hyper-
glycemia are resistant to relaxation of
glycemic targets (74–83). Regardless of
the factors contributing to hypoglycemia
and hypoglycemia unawareness, this rep-
resents an urgent medical issue requiring
intervention.
In type 1 diabetes and severely insulin-
deﬁcient type 2 diabetes, hypoglycemia
unawareness (or hypoglycemia-associated
autonomic failure) can severely compro-
mise stringent diabetes control and qual-
ity of life. This syndrome is characterized
by deﬁcient counterregulatory hormone
release, especially in older adults, and a
diminished autonomic response, which
are both risk factors for and caused by
hypoglycemia. A corollary to this“vicious
cycle” is that several weeks of avoidance
of hypoglycemia has been demonstrated
to improve counterregulation and hypo-
glycemia awareness in many people with
diabetes (106). Hence, individuals with
one or more episodes of clinically signiﬁ-
cant hypoglycemia may beneﬁtf r o ma t
least short-term relaxation of glycemic
targets and availability of glucagon (107).
Any person with recurrent hypoglycemia
or hypoglycemia unawareness should
have their glucose management treat-
ment plan adjusted.
Use of CGM Technology in Hypoglycemia
Prevention
With the advent of sensor-augmented
CGM and CGM-assisted pump therapy,
there has been a promise of alarm-based
prevention of hypoglycemia (108,109). To
date, there have been a number of ran-
domized controlled trials in adults with
type 1 diabetes and studies in adults and
children with type 1 diabetes using real-
time CGM (see Section 7, “Diabetes
Technology”). These studies had differ-
ing A1C at entry and differing primary
end points and thus must be inter-
preted carefully. Real-time CGM studies
can be divided into studies with ele-
vated A1C with the primary end point
of A1C reduction and studies with A1C
near target with the primary end
point of reduction in hypoglycemia (98,
109–124). In people with type 1 and
type 2 diabetes with A1C above target,
CGM improved A1C between 0.3 and
0.6%. For studies targeting hypoglyce-
mia, most studies demonstrated a signiﬁ-
cant reduction in time spent between 54
and 70 mg/dL. A report in people with
type 1 diabetes over the age of 60 years
revealed a small but statistically signiﬁ-
cant decrease in hypoglycemia (125). No
study to date has reported a decrease in
level 3 hypoglycemia. In a single study
using intermittently scanned CGM, adults
with type 1 diabetes with A1C near goal
and impaired awareness of hypoglycemia
demonstrated no change in A1C and
decreased level 2 hypoglycemia (115). For
people with type 2 diabetes, studies
examining the impact of CGM on hy-
poglycemic events are limited; a re-
cent meta-analysis does not reﬂect a
signiﬁcant impact on hypoglycemic events
in type 2 diabetes (126), whereas im-
provements in A1C were observed in
most studies (126–132). Overall, real-
time CGM appears to be a useful tool
for decreasing time spent in a hypo-
glycemic range in people with impaired
awareness. For people with type 2 diabe-
tes, other strategies to assist them with
insulin dosing can improve A1C with
minimal hypoglycemia (133,134).
INTERCURRENT ILLNESS
For further information on management
of individuals with hyperglycemia in the
hospital, see Section 16,“Diabetes Care
in the Hospital.”
Stressful events (e.g., illness, trauma,
surgery) may worsen glycemic control and
precipitate diabetic ketoacidosis or nonke-
totic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state,
life-threatening conditions that require im-
mediate medical care to prevent complica-
tions and death. Any condition leading to
deterioration in glycemic control necessi-
tates more frequent monitoring of blood
glucose; ketosis-prone patients also re-
quire urine or blood ketone monitoring. If
accompanied by ketosis, vomiting, or al-
teration in the level of consciousness,
marked hyperglycemia requires tempo-
rary adjustment of the treatment plan
and immediate interaction with the dia-
betes care team. The patient treated with
noninsulin therapies or medical nutrition
therapy alone may require insulin. Ade-
quate ﬂuid and caloric intake must be
ensured. Infection or dehydration are
more likely to necessitate hospitaliza-
tion of individuals with diabetes versus
those without diabetes.
A clinician with expertise in diabetes
management should treat the hospital-
ized patient. For further information on
the management of diabetic ketoacidosis
and the nonketotic hyperglycemic hyper-
osmolar state, please refer to the ADA
consensus report “Hyperglycemic Crises
in Adult Patients With Diabetes” (134).
References
1. Deshmukh H, Wilmot EG, Gregory R, et al.
Effect of ﬂash glucose monitoring on glycemic
control, hypoglycemia, diabetes-related distress,
and resource utilization in the Association of
British Clinical Diabetologists (ABCD) nationwide
audit. Diabetes Care 2020;43:2153–2160
2. Laiteerapong N, Ham SA, Gao Y , et al. The
legacy effect in type 2 diabetes: impact of early
glycemic control on future complications (the
Diabetes & Aging Study). Diabetes Care 2019;42:
416–426
3 .S t r a t t o nI M ,A d l e rA I ,N e i lH A W ,e ta l .
Association of glycaemia with macrovascular and
microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes
(UKPDS 35): prospective observational study.
BMJ 2000;321:405–412
4. Little RR, Rohlﬁng CL; National Glycohemoglobin
Standardization Program (NGSP) Steering Committee.
Status of hemoglobin A1c measurement and goals
S106 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023for improvement: from chaos to order for improving
diabetes care. Clin Chem 2011;57:205–214
5. Valenzano M, Cibrario Bertolotti I, Valenzano
A, Grassi G. Time in range-A1c hemoglobin
relationship in continuous glucose monitoring of
type 1 diabetes: a real-world study. BMJ Open
Diabetes Res Care 2021;9:e001045
6. Fabris C, Heinemann L, Beck R, Cobelli C,
Kovatchev B. Estimation of hemoglobin A1c from
continuous glucose monitoring data in individuals
with type 1 diabetes: is time in range all we need?
Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;22:501–508
7. Ranjan AG, Rosenlund SV, Hansen TW, Rossing
P , Andersen S, Nørgaard K. Improved time in range
over 1 year is associated with reduced albuminuria
in individuals with sensor-augmented insulin
pump-treated type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care
2020;43:2882–2885
8. Beck RW, Bergenstal RM, Cheng P, et al. The
relationships between time in range, hyperglycemia
metrics, and HbA1c. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2019;
13:614–626
9. /C20Soupal J, Petru/C20zelkov/C19a L, Grunberger G, et al.
Glycemic outcomes in adults with T1D are
impacted more by continuous glucose monitoring
than by insulin delivery method: 3 years of
follow-up from the COMISAIR study. Diabetes
Care 2020;43:37–43
10. Jovanovi/C20c L, Savas H, Mehta M, Trujillo A,
Pettitt DJ. Frequent monitoring of A1C during
pregnancy as a treatment tool to guide therapy.
Diabetes Care 2011;34:53–54
11. Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
(KDIGO) Diabetes Work Group. KDIGO 2020 clinical
practice guideline for diabetes management in
chronic kidney disease. Kidney Int 2020;98(4S):
S1–S115
12. Beck RW, Connor CG, Mullen DM, Wesley
DM, Bergenstal RM. The fallacy of average: how
using HbA
1C alone to assess glycemic control can
be misleading. Diabetes Care 2017;40:994–999
13. Nathan DM, Kuenen J, Borg R, Zheng H,
Schoenfeld D; A1c-Derived Average Glucose
Study Group. Translating the A1C assay into
estimated average glucose values. Diabetes Care
2008;31:1473–1478
14. Wei N, Zheng H, Nathan DM. Empirically
establishing blood glucose targets to achieve
HbA1c goals. Diabetes Care 2014;37:1048–1051
15. Selvin E. Are there clinical implications of
racial differences in HbA1c? A difference, to be a
difference, must make a difference. Diabetes
Care 2016;39:1462–1467
16. Bergenstal RM, Gal RL, Connor CG, et al.;
T1D Exchange Racial Differences Study Group.
Racial differences in the relationship of glucose
concentrations and hemoglobin A1c levels. Ann
Intern Med 2017;167:95–102
17. Khosla L, Bhat S, Fullington LA, Horlyck-
Romanovsky MF. HbA
1c performance in african
descent populations in the United States with
normal glucose tolerance, prediabetes, or diabetes:
a scoping review. Prev Chronic Dis 2021;18:E22
18. Lacy ME, Wellenius GA, Sumner AE, Correa
A, Carnethon MR, Liem RI, et al. Association of
sickle cell trait with hemoglobin A1c in African
Americans. JAMA 2017;317:507–515.
19. Rohlﬁng C, Hanson S, Little RR. Measurement
of hemoglobin A1c in patients with sickle cell trait.
JAMA 2017;317:2237.
20. Wheeler E, Leong A, Liu CT , et al.; EPIC-CVD
Consortium; EPIC-InterAct Consortium; Lifelines
Cohort Study. Impact of common genetic
determinants of hemoglobin A1c on type 2
diabetes risk and diagnosis in ancestrally diverse
populations: a transethnic genome-wide meta-
analysis. PLoS Med 2017;14:e1002383
21. Diabetes Research in Children Network
(DirecNet) Study Group. Relationship of A1C to
glucose concentrations in children with type 1
diabetes: assessments by high-frequency glucose
determinations by sensors. Diabetes Care 2008;
31:381–385
22. Buse JB, Kaufman FR, Linder B, Hirst K, El
Ghormli L; HEALTHY Study Group. Diabetes
screening with hemoglobin A(1c) versus fasting
plasma glucose in a multiethnic middle-school
cohort. Diabetes Care 2013;36:429–435
23. Kamps JL, Hempe JM, Chalew SA. Racial
disparity in A1C independent of mean blood
glucose in children with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes
Care 2010;33:1025–1027
24. Advani A. Positioning time in range in diabetes
management. Diabetologia 2020;63:242–252
2 5 . A v a r iP ,U d u k uC ,G e o r g eD ,H e r r e r oP ,R e d d y
M, Oliver N. Differences for percentage times in
glycemic range between continuous glucose
monitoring and capillary blood glucose monitoring
in adults with type 1 diabetes: analysis of the
REPLACE-BG dataset. Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;
22:222–227
26. Vigersky RA, McMahon C.The relationship of
hemoglobin A1C to time-in-range in patients
with diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:
81–85
27. Kr€oger J, Reichel A, Siegmund T, Ziegler R.
Clinical recommendations for the use of the
ambulatory glucose proﬁle in diabetes care. J
Diabetes Sci Technol 2020;14:586–594
28. Livingstone R, Boyle JG, Petrie JR. How
tightly controlled doﬂuctuations in blood glucose
levels need to be to reduce the risk of developing
complications in people with type 1 diabetes?
Diabet Med 2020;37:513–521
29. Messer LH, Berget C, Vigers T, et al. Real world
hybrid closed-loop discontinuation: Predictors and
perceptions of youth discontinuing the 670G
system in the ﬁrst 6 months. Pediatr Diabetes
2020;21:319–327
30. Mayeda L, Katz R, Ahmad I, et al. Glucose
time in range and peripheral neuropathy in type 2
diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease. BMJ
Open Diabetes Res Care 2020;8:e000991
31. Yoo JH, Choi MS, Ahn J, et al. Association
between continuous glucose monitoring-derived
time in range, other core metrics, and albuminuria
in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;
22:768–776
32. Lu J, Ma X, Shen Y , et al. Time in range is
associated with carotid intima-media thickness in
type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;22:
72–78
33. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial
Research Group; Nathan DM, Genuth S, Lachin J,
et al. The effect of intensive treatment of
diabetes on the development and progression of
long-term complications in insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 1993;329:977–
986
34. Holt RIG, DeVries JH, Hess-Fischl A, et al. The
management of type 1 diabetes in adults. A
Consensus report by the American Diabetes
Association (ADA) and the European Association
for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care
2021;44:2589–2625
35. Battelino T, Danne T, Bergenstal RM, et al.
Clinical targets for continuous glucose monitoring
data interpretation: recommendations from the
International Consensus on Time in Range. Diabetes
Care 2019;42:1593–
1603
36. Tchero H, Kangambega P, Briatte C, Brunet-
Houdard S, Retali GR, Rusch E. Clinical effec-
tiveness of telemedicine in diabetes mellitus: a
meta-analysis of 42 randomized controlled trials.
Telemed J E Health 2019;25:569–583
37. Salabelle C, Ly Sall K, Eroukhmanoff J,
et al. COVID-19 pandemic lockdown in young
people with type 1 diabetes: positive results of
an unprecedented challenge for patients
through telemedicine and change in use of
continuous glucose monitoring. Prim Care
Diabetes 2021;15:884–886
38. Prabhu Navis J, Leelarathna L, Mubita W, et al.
Impact of COVID-19 lockdown onﬂash and real-
time glucose sensor users with type 1 diabetes in
England. Acta Diabetol 2021;58:231–237
39. Seidu S, Kunutsor SK, Topsever P , Hambling
CE, Cos FX, Khunti K. Deintensiﬁc a t i o ni no l d e r
patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic
review of approaches, rates and outcomes.
Diabetes Obes Metab 2019;21:1668–1679
40. Khunti K, Davies MJ. Clinical inertia–time to
reappraise the terminology? Prim Care Diabetes
2017;11:105–106
41. Whitehead L, Glass C, Coppell K. The
effectiveness of goal setting on glycaemic control
for people with type 2 diabetes and prediabetes:
a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Adv
Nurs 2022;78:1212–1227
42. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial
(DCCT)/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions
and Complications (EDIC) Research Group; Lachin
JM, White NH, Hainsworth DP , et al. Effect of
intensive diabetes therapy on the progression of
diabetic retinopathy in patients with type 1
diabetes: 18 years of follow-up in the DCCT/EDIC.
Diabetes 2015;64:631–642
43. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
Complications Research Group; Lachin JM, Genuth
S, Cleary P , Davis MD, Nathan DM. Retinopathy
and nephropathy in patients with type 1 diabetes
four years after a trial of intensive therapy. N Engl J
Med 2000;342:381–389
44. Ohkubo Y, Kishikawa H, Araki E, et al. Intensive
insulin therapy prevents the progression of diabetic
microvascular complications in Japanese patients
with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: a
randomized prospective 6-year study. Diabetes Res
Clin Pract 1995;28:103–117
45. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS)
Group. Effect of intensive blood-glucose control
with metformin on complications in overweight
patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 34). Lancet
1998;352:854–865
46. UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Group.
Intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas
or insulin compared with conventional treatment
and risk of complications in patients with type 2
diabetes (UKPDS 33). Lancet 1998;352:837–853
47. Holman RR, Paul SK, Bethel MA, Matthews
DR, Neil HAW. 10-year follow-up of intensive
glucose control in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med
2008;359:1577–1589
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S10748. Lind M, Pivodic A, Svensson AM,/C19Olafsd/C19ottir
AF, Wedel H, Ludvigsson J. HbA1c level as a risk
factor for retinopathy and nephropathy in
children and adults with type 1 diabetes: Swedish
population based cohort study. BMJ 2019;366:
l4894
49. Adler AI, Stratton IM, Neil HAW , et al.
Association of systolic blood pressure with
macrovascular and microvascular complications
of type 2 diabetes (UKPDS 36): prospective
observational study. BMJ 2000;321:412–419
50. Duckworth W , Abraira C, Moritz T, et al.;
VADT Investigators. Glucose control and vascular
complications in veterans with type 2 diabetes. N
Engl J Med 2009;360:129–139
51. Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, et al.;
ADVANCE Collaborative Group. Intensive blood
glucose control and vascular outcomes in patients
with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:
2560–2572
52. Ismail-Beigi F, Craven T, Banerji MA, et al.;
ACCORD trial group. Effect of intensive treatment
of hyperglycaemia on microvascular outcomes in
type 2 diabetes: an analysis of the ACCORD
randomised trial. Lancet 2010;376:419–430
53. Buse JB, Bain SC, Mann JFE, et al.; LEADER
Trial Investigators. Cardiovascular risk reduction
with liraglutide: an exploratory mediation analysis
of the LEADER trial. Diabetes Care 2020;43:
1546–1552
54. Nathan DM, Cleary PA, Backlund JYC,
et al.; Diabetes Control and Complications
Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
Complications (DCCT/EDIC) Study Research Group.
Intensive diabetes treatment and cardiovascular
disease in patients with type 1 diabetes. N Engl J
Med 2005;353:2643–2653
55. Nathan DM, Zinman B, Cleary PA, et al.;
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
Complications (DCCT/EDIC) Research Group.
Modern-day clinical course of type 1 diabetes
mellitus after 30 years’duration: the diabetes
control and complications trial/epidemiology
of diabetes interventions and complications
and Pittsburgh epidemiology of diabetes comp-
lications experience (1983-2005). Arch Intern
Med 2009;169:1307–1316
56. Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration; Di
Angelantonio E, Kaptoge S, Wormser D, et al.
Association of cardiometabolic multimorbidity
with mortality. JAMA 2015;314:52–60
57. Yeung RO, Zhang Y , Luk A, et al. Metabolic
proﬁles and treatment gaps in young-onset type 2
diabetes in Asia (the JADE programme): a cross-
sectional study of a prospective cohort. Lancet
Diabetes Endocrinol 2014;2:935–943
58. Sattar N, Rawshani A, Franz/C19en S, et al. Age
at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus and
associations with cardiovascular and mortality
risks. Circulation 2019;139:2228–2237
59. Zabala A, Darsalia V, Holzmann MJ, et al. Risk
of ﬁrst stroke in people with type 2 diabetes and
its relation to glycaemic control: a nationwide
observational study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;
22:182–190
60. Zoungas S, Woodward M, Li Q, et al.;
ADVANCE Collaborative group. Impact of age, age
at diagnosis and duration of diabetes on the risk of
macrovascular and microvascular complications and
death in type 2 diabetes. Diabetologia 2014;57:
2465–2474
61. Skyler JS, Bergenstal R, Bonow RO, et al.;
American Diabetes Association; American College
of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart
Association. Intensive glycemic control and the
prevention of cardiovascular events: implications of
the ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VA diabetes trials: a
position statement of the American Diabetes
Association and a scientiﬁcs t a t e m e n to ft h e
American College of Cardiology Foundation and
the American Heart Association. Diabetes Care
2009;32:187–192
62. Gerstein HC, Miller ME, Byington RP , et al.;
Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes
Study Group. Effects of intensive glucose lowering
in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:
2545–2559
6 3 .Z o u n g a sS ,C h a l m e r sJ ,N e a lB ,e ta l . ;
ADVANCE-ON Collaborative Group. Follow-up of
blood-pressure lowering and glucose control in
type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2014;371:1392–
1406
64. Hayward RA, Reaven PD, Wiitala WL, et al.;
VADT Investigators. Follow-up of glycemic control
and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes.
N Engl J Med 2015;372:2197–2206
65. Turnbull FM, Abraira C, Anderson RJ, et al.;
Control Group. Intensive glucose control and
macrovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes.
Diabetologia 2009;52:2288–2298
66. Duckworth WC, Abraira C, Moritz TE, et al.;
Investigators of the VADT. The duration of
diabetes affects the response to intensive glucose
control in type 2 subjects: the VA Diabetes Trial. J
Diabetes Complications 2011;25:355–361
67. Lipska KJ, Ross JS, Miao Y, Shah ND, Lee SJ,
Steinman MA. Potential overtreatment of diabetes
mellitus in older adults with tight glycemic control.
JAMA Intern Med 2015;175:356–362
68. Vijan S, Sussman JB, Yudkin JS, Hayward RA.
Effect of patients’risks and preferences on health
gains with plasma glucose level lowering in type 2
diabetes mellitus. JAMA Intern Med 2014;174:
1227–1234
69. Lee AK, Warren B, Lee CJ, et al. The
association of severe hypoglycemia with incident
cardiovascular events and mortality in adults with
type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2018;41:104–111
70. Davies MJ, D’Alessio DA, Fradkin J, et al.
Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes,
2018. A consensus report by the American
Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European
Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD).
Diabetes Care 2018;41:2669–2701
71. Inzucchi SE, Bergenstal RM, Buse JB, et al.
Management of hyperglycemia in type 2
diabetes, 2015: a patient-centered approach:
update to a position statement of the American
Diabetes Association and the European Asso-
ciation for the Study of Diabetes. Diabetes Care
2015;38:140–149
72. American Diabetes Association. Postprandial
blood glucose. Diabetes Care 2001;24:775–778
73. Raz I, Wilson PWF, Strojek K, et al. Effects of
prandial versus fasting glycemia on cardiovascular
outcomes in type 2 diabetes: the HEART2D trial.
Diabetes Care 2009;32:381–386
74. Agiostratidou G, Anhalt H, Ball D, et al.
Standardizing clinically meaningful outcome
measures beyond HbA
1c for type 1 diabetes: a
consensus report of the American Association of
Clinical Endocrinologists, the American Association
of Diabetes Educators, the American Diabetes
Association, the Endocrine Society, JDRF Interna-
tional, The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley
Charitable Trust, the Pediatric Endocrine Society, and
the T1D Exchange. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1622–1630
75. Polonsky WH, Fortmann AL, Price D, Fisher
L. “Hyperglycemia aversiveness”: investigating an
overlooked problem among adults with type 1
diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2021;35:
107925
76. Ghandi K, Pieri B, Dornhorst A, Hussain S. A
comparison of validated methods used to assess
impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia in type 1
diabetes: an observational study. Diabetes Ther
2021;12:441–451
77. Li P , Geng Z, Ladage VP , Wu J, Lorincz I, Doshi
JA. Early hypoglycaemia and adherence after basal
insulin initiation in a nationally representative
sample of Medicare beneﬁciaries with type 2
diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2019;21:2486–2495
78. Hendrieckx C, Ivory N, Singh H, Frier BM,
Speight J. Impact of severe hypoglycaemia on
psychological outcomes in adults with type 2
diabetes: a systematic review. Diabet Med
2019;36:1082–1091
79. Amiel SA, Potts L, Goldsmith K, et al. A parallel
randomised controlled trial of the Hypoglycaemia
Awareness Restoration Programme for adults with
type 1 diabetes and problematic hypoglycaemia
despite optimised self-care (HARPdoc). Nat Commun
2022;13:2229
80. Khunti K, Alsifri S, Aronson R, et al. Impact of
hypoglycaemia on patient-reported outcomes from
a global, 24-country study of 27,585 people with
type 1 and insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. Diabetes
Res Clin Pract 2017;130:121–129
81. Choudhary P , Amiel SA. Hypoglycaemia in
type 1 diabetes: technological treatments, their
limitations and the place of psychology. Diabetologia
2018;61:761–769
8 2 . H o p k i n sD ,L a w r e n c eI ,M a n s e l lP ,T h o m p s o n
G, Amiel S, Campbell M, et al. Improved biomedical
and psychological outcomes 1 year after structured
education inﬂexible insulin therapy for people with
type 1 diabetes: the U.K. DAFNE experience.
Diabetes Care 2012;35:1638–1642
83. Yang W, Ma J, Yuan G, et al. Determining the
optimal fasting glucose target for patients with type 2
diabetes: results of the multicentre, open-label,
randomized-controlled FPG GOAL trial. Diabetes Obes
Metab 2019;21:1973–1977
84. Whitmer RA, Karter AJ, Yaffe K, Quesenberry
CP Jr, Selby JV. Hypoglycemic episodes and risk of
dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes
mellitus. JAMA 2009;301:1565–1572
85. Punthakee Z, Miller ME, Launer LJ, et al.;
ACCORD Group of Investigators; ACCORD-MIND
Investigators. Poor cognitive function and risk of
severe hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes: post hoc
epidemiologic analysis of the ACCORD trial.
Diabetes Care 2012;35:787–793
86. Jacobson AM, Musen G, Ryan CM, et al.;
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and
Complications Study Research Group. Long-term
effect of diabetes and its treatment on cognitive
function. N Engl J Med 2007;356:1842–1852
87. Karter AJ, Moffet HH, Liu JY , Lipska KJ.
Surveillance of hypoglycemia — limitations of
emergency department and hospital utilization
data. JAMA Intern Med 2018;178:987–988
88. Lee AK, Lee CJ, Huang ES, Sharrett AR, Coresh
J, Selvin E. risk factors for severe hypoglycemia in
S108 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023black and white adults with diabetes: the
Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study.
Diabetes Care 2017;40:1661–1667
89. Karter AJ, Lipska KJ, O’Connor PJ, et al.;
SUPREME-DM Study Group. High rates of severe
hypoglycemia among African American patients
with diabetes: the surveillance, prevention, and
Management of Diabetes Mellitus (SUPREME-
DM) network. J Diabetes Complications 2017;31:
869–873
9 0 . Z o u n g a sS ,P a t e lA ,C h a l m e r sJ ,e ta l . ;A D V A N C E
Collaborative Group. Severe hypoglycemia and risks
of vascular events and death. N Engl J Med
2010;363:1410–1418
91. McCoy RG, Van Houten HK, Ziegenfuss JY ,
Shah ND, Wermers RA, Smith SA. Increased
mortality of patients with diabetes reporting
severe hypoglycemia. Diabetes Care 2012;35:
1897–1901
92. Cahn A, Zuker I, Eilenberg R, et al. Machine
learning based study of longitudinal HbA1c trends
and their association with all-cause mortality:
analyses from a national diabetes registry. Diabetes
Metab Res Rev 2022;38:e3485
93. DuBose SN, Weinstock RS, Beck RW, et al.
Hypoglycemia in older adults with type 1 diabetes.
Diabetes Technol Ther 2016;18:765–771
94. Seaquist ER, Anderson J, Childs B, et al.
Hypoglycemia and diabetes: a report of a
workgroup of the American Diabetes Association
and the Endocrine Society. Diabetes Care
2013;36:1384–1395
95. Bergenstal RM, Klonoff DC, Garg SK, et al.;
ASPIRE In-Home Study Group. Threshold-based
insulin-pump interruption for reduction of hypo-
glycemia. N Engl J Med 2013;369:224–232
96. Hering BJ, Clarke WR, Bridges ND, et al.;
Clinical Islet Transplantation Consortium. Phase 3
trial of transplantation of human islets in type 1
diabetes complicated by severe hypoglycemia.
Diabetes Care 2016;39:1230–1240
97. Harlan DM. Islet transplantation for
hypoglycemia unawareness/severe hypoglycemia:
caveat emptor. Diabetes Care 2016;39:1072–1074
98. McTavish L, Wiltshire E. Effective treatment
of hypoglycemia in children with type 1 diabetes:
a randomized controlled clinical trial. Pediatr
Diabetes 2011;12(4pt2):381–387
99. McTavish L, Corley B, Weatherall M, Wiltshire
E, Krebs JD. Weight-based carbohydrate treatment
of hypoglycaemia in people with type 1 diabetes
using insulin pump therapy: a randomized crossover
clinical trial. Diabet Med 2018;35:339–346
100. Georgakopoulos K, Katsilambros N, Fragaki M,
et al. Recovery from insulin-induced hypoglycemia
after saccharose or glucose administration. Clin
Physiol Biochem 1990;8:267–272
101. Layman DK, Clifton P , Gannon MC, Krauss
RM, Nuttall FQ. Protein in optimal health: heart
disease and type 2 diabetes. Am J Clin Nutr
2008;87:1571S–1575S
102. Pontiroli AE, Ceriani V. Intranasal glucagon
for hypoglycaemia in diabetic patients. An old
dream is becoming reality? Diabetes Obes Metab
2018;20:1812–1816
103. Stanton-Fay SH, Hamilton K, Chadwick PM,
et al.; DAFNEplus study group. The DAFNEplus
programme for sustained type 1 diabetes self
management: intervention development using
the Behaviour Change Wheel. Diabet Med 2021;
38:e14548
104. Farrell CM, McCrimmon RJ. Clinical
approaches to treat impaired awareness of
hypoglycaemia. Ther Adv Endocrinol Metab
2021;12:20420188211000248
105. Cox DJ, Gonder-Frederick L, Julian DM,
Clarke W. Long-term follow-up evaluation of
blood glucose awareness training. Diabetes Care
1994;17:1–5
106. Cryer PE. Diverse causes of hypoglycemia-
associated autonomic failure in diabetes. N Engl J
Med 2004;350:2272–2279
107. Mitchell BD, He X, Sturdy IM, Cagle AP , Settles
J A .G l u c a g o np r e s c r i p t i o np a t t e r n si np a t i e n t sw i t h
either type 1 or 2 diabetes with newly prescribed
insulin. Endocr Pract 2016;22:123–135
108. Hermanns N, Heinemann L, Freckmann G,
Waldenmaier D, Ehrmann D. Impact of CGM on
the management of hypoglycemia problems:
overview and secondary analysis of the HypoDE
study. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2019;13:636–644
109. Heinemann L, Freckmann G, Ehrmann D,
Faber-Heinemann G, Guerra S, Waldenmaier D,
et al. Heinemann L, Freckmann G, Ehrmann D, et al.
Real-time continuous glucose monitoring in adults
with type 1 diabetes and impaired hypoglycaemia
awareness or severe hypoglycaemia treated with
multiple daily insulin injections (HypoDE): a
multicentre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet
2018;391:1367
–1377
110. Beck RW, Riddlesworth T, Ruedy K, Ahmann
A, Bergenstal R, Haller S, et al. Effect of continuous
glucose monitoring on glycemic control in adults
with type 1 diabetes using insulin injections: the
DIAMOND randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2017;
317:371–378
111. Sequeira PA, Montoya L, Ruelas V, et al.
Continuous glucose monitoring pilot in low-
income type 1 diabetes patients. Diabetes Technol
Ther 2013;15:855–858
112. Tumminia A, Crimi S, Sciacca L, et al. Efﬁcacy
of real-time continuous glucose monitoring on
glycaemic control and glucose variability in type 1
diabetic patients treated with either insulin pumps
or multiple insulin injection therapy: a randomized
controlled crossover trial. Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2015;31:61–68
113. Bolinder J, Antuna R, Geelhoed-Duijvestijn P ,
Kr€oger J, Weitgasser R. Novel glucose-sensing
technology and hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes:
a multicentre, non-masked, randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 2016;388:2254–2263
114. Hermanns N, Schumann B, Kulzer B, Haak
T. The impact of continuous glucose monitoring
on low interstitial glucose values and low blood
glucose values assessed by point-of-care blood
glucose meters: results of a crossover trial. J
Diabetes Sci Technol 2014;8:516–522
115. Reddy M, Jugnee N, El Laboudi A, Spanudakis
E, Anantharaja S, Oliver N. A randomized controlled
pilot study of continuous glucose monitoring and
ﬂash glucose monitoring in people with Type 1
diabetes and impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia.
Diabet Med 2018;35:483–490
116. Riddlesworth T, Price D, Cohen N, Beck
RW. Hypoglycemic event frequency and the
effect of continuous glucose monitoring in
adults with type 1 diabetes using multiple daily
insulin injections. Diabetes Ther 2017;8:947–951
117. van Beers CAJ, DeVries JH, Kleijer SJ,
et al. Continuous glucose monitoring for
patients with type 1 diabetes and impaired
awareness of hypoglycaemia (IN CONTROL): a
randomised, open-label, crossover trial. Lancet
Diabetes Endocrinol 2016;4:893–902
118. Battelino T, Conget I, Olsen B, et al.; SWITCH
Study Group. The use and efﬁcacy of continuous
glucose monitoring in type 1 diabetes treated with
insulin pump therapy: a randomised controlled
trial. Diabetologia 2012;55:3155–3162
119. Deiss D, Bolinder J, Riveline JP , et al.
Improved glycemic control in poorly controlled
patients with type 1 diabetes using real-time
continuous glucose monitoring. Diabetes Care
2006;29:2730–2732
120. Tamborlane WV, Beck RW, Bode BW,
et al.; Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Continuous Glucose Monitoring Study Group.
Continuous glucose monitoring and intensive
treatment of type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med
2008;359:1464 –1476
121. O’Connell MA, Donath S, O’Neal DN, et al.
Glycaemic impact of patient-led use of sensor-
guided pump therapy in type 1 diabetes: a
randomised controlled trial. Diabetologia 2009;
52:1250–1257
122. Beck RW , Hirsch IB, Laffel L, et al.; Juvenile
Diabetes Research Foundation Continuous Glucose
Monitoring Study Group. The effect of continuous
glucose monitoring in well-controlled type 1
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1378–1383
123. Battelino T, Phillip M, Bratina N, Nimri R,
Oskarsson P , Bolinder J. Effect of continuous
glucose monitoring on hypoglycemia in type 1
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011;34:795–800
124. Ludvigsson J, Hanas R. Continuous
subcutaneous glucose monitoring improved
metabolic control in pediatric patients with
type 1 diabetes: a controlled crossover study.
Pediatrics 2003;111:933–938
125. Pratley RE, Kanapka LG, Rickels MR, Ahmann
A, Aleppo G, Beck R, et al. Effect of continuous
glucose monitoring on hypoglycemia in older
adults with type 1 diabetes: a randomized clinical
trial. JAMA 2020;323:2397–2406
126. Dicembrini I, Mannucci E, Monami M, Pala L.
Impact of technology on glycemic control in type 2
diabetes: a meta-analysis of randomized trials on
continuous glucose monitoring and continuous
subcutaneous insulin infusion. Diabetes Obes
Metab 2019;21:2619–2625
127. Beck RW, Riddlesworth TD, Ruedy K, et al.;
DIAMOND Study Group. Continuous glucose
monitoring versus usual care in patients with
type 2 diabetes receiving multiple daily insulin
injections: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med
2017;167:365–374
128. Ehrhardt NM, Chellappa M, Walker MS,
Fonda SJ, Vigersky RA. The effect of real-time
continuous glucose monitoring on glycemic
control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
J Diabetes Sci Technol 2011;5:668–675
129. Haak T , Hanaire H, Ajjan R, Hermanns N,
Riveline JP, Rayman G. Flash glucose-sensing
technology as a replacement for blood glucose
monitoring for the management of insulin-treated
type 2 diabetes: a multicenter, open-label rando-
mized controlled trial. Diabetes Ther 2017;8:55–73
130. Yoo HJ, An HG, Park SY , et al. Use of a real
time continuous glucose monitoring system as a
motivational device for poorly controlled type 2
diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2008;82:73–79
131. Garg S, Zisser H, Schwartz S, et al.
Improvement in glycemic excursions with a
transcutaneous, real-time continuous glucose
diabetesjournals.org/care Glycemic Targets S109sensor: a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes
Care 2006;29:44–50
132. New JP , Ajjan R, Pfeiffer AFH, Freckmann G.
Continuous glucose monitoring in people with
diabetes: the randomized controlled Glucose
Level Awareness in Diabetes Study (GLADIS).
Diabet Med 2015;32:609–617
133. Bergenstal RM, Johnson M, Passi R, et al.
Automated insulin dosing guidance to optimise
insulin management in patients with type 2
diabetes: a multicentre, randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 2019;393:1138–1148
134. Kitabchi AE, Umpierrez GE, Miles JM, Fisher
JN. Hyperglycemic crises in adult patients with
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1335–1343
S110 Glycemic Targets Diabetes Care Volume 46, Supplement 1, January 2023